README.md, before:



# Example lesson

## Credit and license

- https://coderefinery.github.io/example-lesson/license/


## How to include jekyll-common

```shell
$ git submodule add https://github.com/coderefinery/jekyll-common.git jekyll-common
```


## Tips

- Get inspired by Software Carpentry, e.g.: https://biologyguy.github.io/python-novice-gapminder/
- Students interacting is better than students only listening
- Share your sources and exercises early to get early feedback
- Do not be afraid to share unfinished and badly structured work
- Make it available and restructure later, do not gold-plate too early
- Use ideally Markdown or RST or Jupyter notebooks (easy to generate nice pages from these formats)
- Divide your session into modules and files
- Try to make it interactive: mix type-along sessions with short exercises
- Motivate each session
- Set and document goals for each module
- Mind the cognitive load (better few messages that are clear rather than too much information)
- Involve others to get your material tested
- Create a new repository for each session, makes it easier to move things around


## Contribution

Yes please! Please extend, edit, correct, suggest, and discuss.

Commit message:

add document for brainstorming and planning (#2)

README.md, after:



# Example lesson

## Credit and license

- https://coderefinery.github.io/example-lesson/license/

## Lesson development document

Planning and brainstorming around this lesson in 
[this document](brainstorming.md).


## How to include jekyll-common

```shell
$ git submodule add https://github.com/coderefinery/jekyll-common.git jekyll-common
```


## Tips

- Get inspired by Software Carpentry, e.g.: https://biologyguy.github.io/python-novice-gapminder/
- Students interacting is better than students only listening
- Share your sources and exercises early to get early feedback
- Do not be afraid to share unfinished and badly structured work
- Make it available and restructure later, do not gold-plate too early
- Use ideally Markdown or RST or Jupyter notebooks (easy to generate nice pages from these formats)
- Divide your session into modules and files
- Try to make it interactive: mix type-along sessions with short exercises
- Motivate each session
- Set and document goals for each module
- Mind the cognitive load (better few messages that are clear rather than too much information)
- Involve others to get your material tested
- Create a new repository for each session, makes it easier to move things around


## Contribution

Yes please! Please extend, edit, correct, suggest, and discuss.
