_episodes/00-preparation.md, before:

---
layout: episode
title: "Pre-workshop preparation"
teaching: 0
exercises: 60
questions:
  - "What should I do before the CodeRefinery instructor training workshop?"
  - "How long is the preparation work?"
  - "Do I need to be Carpentries instructor to attend this workshop?"
objectives:
  - "Explain how to prepare for the workshop"
  - "Explain why it is important to be prepared for the workshop"
  - "Clearly detail how much work is expected to be done before the workshop"
  - "Explain how much time it should take to prepare"
keypoints:
  - "Read short article on teaching to get ready"
  - "Study at least one CodeRefinery lesson"
---

## You don't have to be a [Carpentries instructor](https://carpentries.org/instructors/)

Being a [Carpentries instructor](https://carpentries.org/instructors/) is not required to attend CodeRefinery Instructor Training workshop. 


## Recommended reading

To fully take advantage on the CodeRefinery instructor training workshop, we
recommend to read the following resources.


### The Science of Learning

Please read ["The Science of Learning"](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/files/papers/science-of-learning-2015.pdf), which provides a brief overview of some key evidence-based results in teaching. Reading this article should not take more than 10 minutes.

> ## Remark
> The same article is used for the  [Carpentry Instructor Training](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training).
{: .callout}


### Go through a CodeRefinery lesson

Please go to the [CodeRefinery lessons page](https://coderefinery.org/lessons/), have a look at what we currently teach, and then choose one of our lessons and read through it carefully. You will be using your selected lesson for several in-class exercises and discussions.

Select one episode and write a few comments on the content (questions below are given for guidance but feel free to comment on anything):

1. There is a set of questions at the top of each episode. From you point of view, do you think the episode answers these questions?

2. Are there any sections you do not understand? Any parts you would like us to go through during the workshop?

3. Are there any questions you would like us to answer about this episode? Anything unclear?

> ## Remark
> Don't worry if there are sections you do not understand. The main objective is to have a baseline for our discussions, not to check your ability to teach the lesson during the Instructor Training Workshop.
{: .callout}

This exercise should take about 50 minutes.


## Practicals

### Don't forget your laptop and charger!

Please also bring a laptop powerful enough to teach on so that you can take part in all of the practical exercises (a tablet won't be sufficient), and its charger.

Commit message:

link to youtube videos; closes #80, closes #84

_episodes/00-preparation.md, after:

---
layout: episode
title: "Pre-workshop preparation"
teaching: 0
exercises: 60
questions:
  - "What should I do before the CodeRefinery instructor training workshop?"
  - "How long is the preparation work?"
  - "Do I need to be Carpentries instructor to attend this workshop?"
objectives:
  - "Explain how to prepare for the workshop"
  - "Explain why it is important to be prepared for the workshop"
  - "Clearly detail how much work is expected to be done before the workshop"
  - "Explain how much time it should take to prepare"
keypoints:
  - "Read short article on teaching to get ready"
  - "Study at least one CodeRefinery lesson"
---

## You don't have to be a [Carpentries instructor](https://carpentries.org/instructors/)

Being a [Carpentries instructor](https://carpentries.org/instructors/) is not required to attend CodeRefinery Instructor Training workshop. 


## Recommended reading

To fully take advantage on the CodeRefinery instructor training workshop, we
recommend to read the following resources.


### The Science of Learning

Please read ["The Science of Learning"](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/files/papers/science-of-learning-2015.pdf), which provides a brief overview of some key evidence-based results in teaching. Reading this article should not take more than 10 minutes.

> ## Remark
> The same article is used for the  [Carpentry Instructor Training](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training).
{: .callout}


### Watch short videos about our lessons and our approach to teaching

- Teaching philosophies: <https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpLblYHCzJAAHF89P-GCjEXWC8CF-7nhX>
- Lightning overview of CodeRefinery lessons: <https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpLblYHCzJABvt25VY0wNIgbaQfTQaND7>


### Go through a CodeRefinery lesson

Please go to the [CodeRefinery lessons page](https://coderefinery.org/lessons/), have a look at what we currently teach, and then choose one of our lessons and read through it carefully. You will be using your selected lesson for several in-class exercises and discussions.

Select one episode and write a few comments on the content (questions below are given for guidance but feel free to comment on anything):

1. There is a set of questions at the top of each episode. From you point of view, do you think the episode answers these questions?

2. Are there any sections you do not understand? Any parts you would like us to go through during the workshop?

3. Are there any questions you would like us to answer about this episode? Anything unclear?

> ## Remark
> Don't worry if there are sections you do not understand. The main objective is to have a baseline for our discussions, not to check your ability to teach the lesson during the Instructor Training Workshop.
{: .callout}

This exercise should take about 50 minutes.


## Practicals

### Don't forget your laptop and charger!

Please also bring a laptop powerful enough to teach on so that you can take part in all of the practical exercises (a tablet won't be sufficient), and its charger.
