_episodes/03-operations.md, before:

---
layout: episode
title: "Running CodeRefinery workshops"
teaching: 20
exercises: 10
questions:
  - "How can you use CodeRefinery lessons?"
  - "What are the essential steps for organizing a CodeRefinery workshop?"
objectives:
  - "Learn how to use CodeRefinery training material."
  - "Discuss on how to run a CodeRefinery workshop."
keypoints:
  - "Flexibility to reuse CodeRefinery teaching materials."
  - "Checklists for running CodeRefinery workshops."
---

## Organizing a CodeRefinery workshop

Anyone can organize a CodeRefinery workshop and teach the CodeRefinery lessons which are 
licensed under [CC-BY](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
However, making it a successful workshop requires careful planning and preparation. Here we will go 
through practical aspects of organizing a workshop. 

> ## Workshop manuals
> CodeRefinery maintains a number of [workshop manuals](https://github.com/coderefinery/manuals/) 
> with practical tips and checklists. Much of the material below is covered in the manuals.
{: .callout}

## Before the workshop

#### Workshop coordinator

- One person should be workshop coordinator and make sure that all the necessary preparation 
  steps are done in a timely fashion. 

#### Instructors and helpers

- Recruit instructors - having at least 3 instructors is highly recommended.
- Find 1-2 workshop helpers [with an appropriate background](https://coderefinery.org/workshop-requirements/#helpers).
- If the workshop will be customized to the needs of a particular audience, plan which lessons 
  you will teach.
- Organize a meeting with all instructors and helpers to discuss the schedule, distribute 
  lessons and plan timing. 
- Point helpers (and instructors) to the [tips for helpers](https://github.com/coderefinery/manuals/blob/master/helping-and-teaching.md).

#### Lecture room

- Start looking for an appropriate lecture room early.
- See this [list of requirements](https://coderefinery.org/workshop-requirements/#lecture-room) for 
  the lecture room.

#### Advertising the workshop

- Set up a workshop webpage.
- Ask an administrator of https://indico.neic.no to set up pre-workshop survey link and registration form.
- Announce the workshop via mailing lists, calendars and personal contacts. 
- Email persons registered to the notify-me form (if relevant).
- Maintain a waiting list.

#### Communication with registered participants 

- Send out practical information, including installation instructions, 2-3 weeks ahead. [Here is a template](https://github.com/coderefinery/manuals/blob/master/templates/practical-info-to-participants.txt).
- Emphasize that all software should be installed before the workshop starts, and point out 
  the [configuration problems and solutions](https://coderefinery.github.io/installation/troubleshooting/).

#### Miscellaneous

- Organize sticky notes, extension cables and alternative wifi options for those without Eduroam.
- Prepare a shared document (e.g. Google doc) with global write permissions, consider creating a memorable short-link.
- Order coffee and refreshments for coffee breaks, if possible.

---

## Pre-workshop survey

WRITEME

---

## Preparing lessons

- Carefully go through the lesson material you will be teaching and think about how you 
  intend to teach it, and how much time you will be spending on each episode.
- Go through the instructor guides of the lessons you will be teaching. Try to memorize the 
  typical pitfalls, common questions and core aspects that you should make sure to convey clearly.
- Collaborative Git and documentation lessons require exercise repositories to be set up. 
  For this follow the instructor guides in the lesson material.
- Go through the [lesson presentation hints](https://github.com/coderefinery/manuals/blob/master/presenting.md).

---

## During workshop

#### Arrival 

- As people arrive, emphasize to people that they need to sit with someone - don't work alone.
- Give an introductory talk, see [https://github.com/coderefinery/workshop-intro](https://github.com/coderefinery/workshop-intro).
- Have a 10 minute ice-breaker session where participants and instructors introduce themselves 
  and either describe their research in 2-3 sentences or what they hope to get out of the workshop.

#### While teaching

- Keep up interactive feel by encouraging and asking questions.
- Keep time.
- For presentations which have shell commands, create a cheatsheet/reference on the board in real time.
- Remind people about sticky notes.
- Make sure to take regular breaks (at least a short break each hour).
- Give participants some time to also experiment (do not rush the classroom through exercises).
- Encourage optional feedback at the end of each day on sticky notes.
- Create GitHub issues for points which are confusing or problematic.
- Take active part even in the lessons you're not teaching, e.g. by asking questions and (politely) interject with clarifications when you think something is confusing to the learners.

---

## End of workshop

- Give credit to those who contributed and helped.
- Use [https://github.com/coderefinery/workshop-outro](https://github.com/coderefinery/workshop-outro).

---

## Post-workshop

- Process and distribute feedback (e.g. type up in shared document)
- Debrief with instructors.
- Process certificate requests.

---

> ## Exercise: set up a workshop webpage
>
> 1. Use the [GitHub importer](https://github.com/new/import) to import this workshop template [add URL].
>    Name the new repository to include some date and location.
> 2. Clone the imported repository and inspect the template.
> 3. Modify some of the fields (schedule, instructors, ...) and push a commit.
> 4. Go to the rendered page on repository-name.github.io
{: .challenge}

Commit message:

clarify and add about stickers

_episodes/03-operations.md, after:

---
layout: episode
title: "Running CodeRefinery workshops"
teaching: 20
exercises: 10
questions:
  - "How can you use CodeRefinery lessons?"
  - "What are the essential steps for organizing a CodeRefinery workshop?"
objectives:
  - "Learn how to use CodeRefinery training material."
  - "Discuss on how to run a CodeRefinery workshop."
keypoints:
  - "Flexibility to reuse CodeRefinery teaching materials."
  - "Checklists for running CodeRefinery workshops."
---

## Organizing a CodeRefinery workshop

Anyone can organize a CodeRefinery workshop and teach the CodeRefinery lessons which are 
licensed under [CC-BY](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
However, making it a successful workshop requires careful planning and preparation. Here we will go 
through practical aspects of organizing a workshop. 

> ## Workshop manuals
> CodeRefinery maintains a number of [workshop manuals](https://github.com/coderefinery/manuals/) 
> with practical tips and checklists. Much of the material below is covered in the manuals.
{: .callout}

## Before the workshop

#### Workshop coordinator

- One person should be workshop coordinator and make sure that all the necessary preparation 
  steps are done in a timely fashion. 

#### Instructors and helpers

- Recruit instructors - having at least 3 instructors is highly recommended.
- Find 1-2 workshop helpers [with an appropriate background](https://coderefinery.org/workshop-requirements/#helpers).
- If the workshop will be customized to the needs of a particular audience, plan which lessons 
  you will teach.
- Organize a meeting with all instructors and helpers to discuss the schedule, distribute 
  lessons and plan timing. 
- Point helpers (and instructors) to the [tips for helpers](https://github.com/coderefinery/manuals/blob/master/helping-and-teaching.md).

#### Lecture room

- Start looking for an appropriate lecture room early.
- See this [list of requirements](https://coderefinery.org/workshop-requirements/#lecture-room) for 
  the lecture room.

#### Advertising the workshop

- Set up a workshop webpage (see exercise below).
- Write an email to support@coderefinery.org to get a pre-workshop survey link and registration form on 
  [https://indico.neic.no](https://indico.neic.no)
- Announce the workshop via mailing lists, calendars and personal contacts. 
- Email persons registered to the notify-me form (if relevant).
- Maintain a waiting list.

#### Communication with registered participants 

- Send out practical information, including installation instructions, 2-3 weeks ahead. [Here is a template](https://github.com/coderefinery/manuals/blob/master/templates/practical-info-to-participants.txt).
- Emphasize that all software should be installed before the workshop starts, and point out 
  the [configuration problems and solutions](https://coderefinery.github.io/installation/troubleshooting/).

#### Miscellaneous

- Organize sticky notes, extension cables and alternative wifi options for those without Eduroam.
- If you wish, write to support@coderefinery.org to request CodeRefinery stickers which can 
  be handed out to participants.
- Prepare a shared document (e.g. Google doc) with global write permissions, consider creating a memorable short-link.
- Order coffee and refreshments for coffee breaks, if possible.

---

## Pre-workshop survey

WRITEME

---

## Preparing lessons

- Carefully go through the lesson material you will be teaching and think about how you 
  intend to teach it, and how much time you will be spending on each episode.
- Go through the instructor guides of the lessons you will be teaching. Try to memorize the 
  typical pitfalls, common questions and core aspects that you should make sure to convey clearly.
- Collaborative Git and documentation lessons require exercise repositories to be set up. 
  For this follow the instructor guides in the lesson material.
- Go through the [lesson presentation hints](https://github.com/coderefinery/manuals/blob/master/presenting.md).

---

## During workshop

#### Arrival 

- As people arrive, emphasize to people that they need to sit with someone - don't work alone.
- Give an introductory talk, see [https://github.com/coderefinery/workshop-intro](https://github.com/coderefinery/workshop-intro).
- Have a 10 minute ice-breaker session where participants and instructors introduce themselves 
  and either describe their research in 2-3 sentences or what they hope to get out of the workshop.

#### While teaching

- Keep up interactive feel by encouraging and asking questions.
- Keep time.
- For presentations which have shell commands, create a cheatsheet/reference on the board in real time.
- Remind people about sticky notes.
- Make sure to take regular breaks (at least a short break each hour).
- Give participants some time to also experiment (do not rush the classroom through exercises).
- Encourage optional feedback at the end of each day on sticky notes.
- Create GitHub issues for points which are confusing or problematic.
- Take active part even in the lessons you're not teaching, e.g. by asking questions and (politely) interject with clarifications when you think something is confusing to the learners.

---

## End of workshop

- Give credit to those who contributed and helped.
- Use [https://github.com/coderefinery/workshop-outro](https://github.com/coderefinery/workshop-outro).

---

## Post-workshop

- Process and distribute feedback (e.g. type up in shared document)
- Debrief with instructors.
- Process certificate requests.

---

> ## Exercise: set up a workshop webpage
>
> 1. Use the [GitHub importer](https://github.com/new/import) to import this workshop template [add URL].
>    Name the new repository to include some date and location.
> 2. Clone the imported repository and inspect the template.
> 3. Modify some of the fields (schedule, instructors, ...) and push a commit.
> 4. Go to the rendered page on repository-name.github.io
{: .challenge}
