_episodes/06-lessons.md, before:

---
layout: episode
title: "Contributing to lesson development"
teaching: 30
exercises: 20
questions:
  - "How can you contribute to CodeRefinery lessons?"
  - "How can you create new lessons?"
objectives:
  - "Learn how to contribute to CodeRefinery."
  - "Discussion on important steps for designing a new lesson."
keypoints:
  - "The backwards lesson design process saves time and increases quality"
  - "We have checklists for reviewing existing lessons and creating new lessons"
---

> ## Remark
>
> We will extensively refer to the CodeRefinery [lesson-design](https://github.com/coderefinery/manuals/blob/master/lesson-design.md)
> manual
> and the [lesson-review](https://github.com/coderefinery/manuals/blob/master/lesson-review.md) checklist.
>
> We also use and recommend to read [The Carpentries Curriculum Development Handbook](https://cdh.carpentries.org).
{: .callout}


## Backwards lesson design

Previously, we've talked about the general concept of how to design
lessons to match learners.  Here, we will go through a practical
process.

The basic idea is called **backwards lesson design**.
* You don't think about how to do something and try to explain it.
* Instead, you start with **learner personas**, and think of what is
  useful to them.  Then, you create a sequence of exercises which test
  incrementally progressing tasks.  Then, you write the minimum amount
  of material to teach the gap between exercises.

Why is it good to have a process?:

* Having a semi-rigid design process **saves time** (hopefully).
* It can increase quality.
* **We aren't perfect yet.**  CodeRefinery is still striving to get
  better at this, and we are more ad-hoc than you might think.
  A number of our lessons have not been designed this way but we are now improving
  these lessons with the backwards lesson design in mind.

The whole process (copied from
[lesson-design](https://github.com/coderefinery/manuals/blob/master/lesson-design.md))
is:

1. Brainstorm what you want to cover.
2. Create or reuse learner personas - understand who you want to
   teach.  What do they care about?  Perhaps as important is what they
   don't care about: make sure that you don't go too in depth too
   early and turn people off.
3. Create some summative assessments, that show what learners should
   learn by the end.  Try to connect these to the learner personas.
4. Create formative assessments (exercises) that let the learners
   practice what you want them to learn.  See below for hints on coming
   up with good exercises.  These should also connect to things the
   learners will actually do, but can also be more of checkpoints.
5. Put exercises in a logical order, and fill in any gaps.  Ideally
   there should be 15-20 min of teaching between each exercise.  Perhaps
   most are short (a few longer examples as needed), to identify a
   certain learning goal and misconception.
6. Write just enough material to get from one exercise to the other.

In this episode, we first go over a process of reviewing existing
lessons (that's easier and is done more often).  Then, the process of
creating new lessons.


## Contributing to existing CodeRefinery lessons

Our lessons are collaboratively developed.  They are made by many
people, and there is no single fixed master plan (but there should be,
in the instructors or maintainer's guide).  We encourage
everyone to contribute to the lessons.


### Contribution process

We've made [the
lesson-review checklist](https://github.com/coderefinery/manuals/blob/master/lesson-review.md)
to guide the review process.

Lessons are reviewed very often - essentially, before each workshop by
the instructor of that workshop.  This can be a quick review, looking
at issues and fixing easy things, or more thorough.

Every so often (such as at this training), there is an extensive
hackathon period of fully revising a lesson and making major improvements.

We now go to the lesson-review checklist (link above) and discuss it, instead of
duplicating things here.


### Technical aspects

There is not much special to say about contributing to existing
lessons: it is an open project on Github.  Make issues and pull
requests about ideas and improvements.

* It's OK to make issues/PRs about ideas or things still under
  discussion.
* If you see an open pull request, don't be afraid to comment and
  merge!

You can most likely figure out how the different pages work.  In
short:
* `_episodes/` contains the markdown files of each episode, which get
  automatically assembled.  There is YAML metadata at the top of
  each.
* `index.md` is the main page, `guide.md` is the instructor's guide,
  and `reference.md` is the learner's reference guide.


## Creating new teaching material

Creating new teaching material is a longer process, because you should
go through the whole backwards lesson design process and get extensive
comments.  Still, don't feel afraid: nothing is perfect (or even good)
the first time.


### Conceptual approach

We should use the backwards lesson design process, mentioned above.  This is
extensively discussed in a [chapter of the book Teaching Teach
Together ("A lesson design
process")](https://teachtogether.tech/#s:process), but we have a
shorter summary for quicker reference and discussion in [the
coderefinery lesson-design
manual](https://github.com/coderefinery/manuals/blob/master/lesson-design.md).

Instead of duplicating information here, we will directly discuss the
design process with the CodeRefinery manual.


### Technical aspects

Again, lessons are developed on Github.

Copy the workshop repository template (TODO: where is it).

## Backwards design exercise

> ## Practice backwards design
>
> Choose a simple lesson topic and apply backwards lesson design.  You
> won't get all the way through, but come up with a logical
> progression of exercises.
>
> Some suggestions:
> - Regular expressions
> - Making papers in LaTeX
> - Making figures in your favorite programming language.
> - Linux shell basics
> - Something non-technical, such as painting a room
> - An instructor training for CodeRefinery
>
> How does this compare to other lessons you have designed?
>
{: .challenge}

> ## Backwards lesson design in practice (advanced)
>
> Was this instructor training material backwards-designed?  How can
> you tell?
>
{: .challenge}

Commit message:

plan for the fact that some participants will get stuck

_episodes/06-lessons.md, after:

---
layout: episode
title: "Contributing to lesson development"
teaching: 30
exercises: 20
questions:
  - "How can you contribute to CodeRefinery lessons?"
  - "How can you create new lessons?"
objectives:
  - "Learn how to contribute to CodeRefinery."
  - "Discussion on important steps for designing a new lesson."
keypoints:
  - "The backwards lesson design process saves time and increases quality"
  - "We have checklists for reviewing existing lessons and creating new lessons"
---

> ## Remark
>
> We will extensively refer to the CodeRefinery [lesson-design](https://github.com/coderefinery/manuals/blob/master/lesson-design.md)
> manual
> and the [lesson-review](https://github.com/coderefinery/manuals/blob/master/lesson-review.md) checklist.
>
> We also use and recommend to read [The Carpentries Curriculum Development Handbook](https://cdh.carpentries.org).
{: .callout}


## Backwards lesson design

Previously, we've talked about the general concept of how to design
lessons to match learners.  Here, we will go through a practical
process.

The basic idea is called **backwards lesson design**.
* You don't think about how to do something and try to explain it.
* Instead, you start with **learner personas**, and think of what is
  useful to them.  Then, you create a sequence of exercises which test
  incrementally progressing tasks.  Then, you write the minimum amount
  of material to teach the gap between exercises.

Why is it good to have a process?:

* Having a semi-rigid design process **saves time** (hopefully).
* It can increase quality.
* **We aren't perfect yet.**  CodeRefinery is still striving to get
  better at this, and we are more ad-hoc than you might think.
  A number of our lessons have not been designed this way but we are now improving
  these lessons with the backwards lesson design in mind.

The whole process (copied from
[lesson-design](https://github.com/coderefinery/manuals/blob/master/lesson-design.md))
is:

1. Brainstorm what you want to cover.
2. Create or reuse learner personas - understand who you want to
   teach.  What do they care about?  Perhaps as important is what they
   don't care about: make sure that you don't go too in depth too
   early and turn people off.
3. Create some summative assessments, that show what learners should
   learn by the end.  Try to connect these to the learner personas.
4. Create formative assessments (exercises) that let the learners
   practice what you want them to learn.  See below for hints on coming
   up with good exercises.  These should also connect to things the
   learners will actually do, but can also be more of checkpoints.
5. Put exercises in a logical order, and fill in any gaps.  Ideally
   there should be 15-20 min of teaching between each exercise.  Perhaps
   most are short (a few longer examples as needed), to identify a
   certain learning goal and misconception.
6. Write just enough material to get from one exercise to the other.

When designing exercises, consider that some participants will get stuck
and may want to re-join at a later exercise. In other words it is nice
if exercises build up on each other but not at the cost that if participants
get stuck at exercise 2, they will not be able to do exercises 3 to N.

In this episode, we first go over a process of reviewing existing
lessons (that's easier and is done more often).  Then, the process of
creating new lessons.


## Contributing to existing CodeRefinery lessons

Our lessons are collaboratively developed.  They are made by many
people, and there is no single fixed master plan (but there should be,
in the instructors or maintainer's guide).  We encourage
everyone to contribute to the lessons.


### Contribution process

We've made [the
lesson-review checklist](https://github.com/coderefinery/manuals/blob/master/lesson-review.md)
to guide the review process.

Lessons are reviewed very often - essentially, before each workshop by
the instructor of that workshop.  This can be a quick review, looking
at issues and fixing easy things, or more thorough.

Every so often (such as at this training), there is an extensive
hackathon period of fully revising a lesson and making major improvements.

We now go to the lesson-review checklist (link above) and discuss it, instead of
duplicating things here.


### Technical aspects

There is not much special to say about contributing to existing
lessons: it is an open project on Github.  Make issues and pull
requests about ideas and improvements.

* It's OK to make issues/PRs about ideas or things still under
  discussion.
* If you see an open pull request, don't be afraid to comment and
  merge!

You can most likely figure out how the different pages work.  In
short:
* `_episodes/` contains the markdown files of each episode, which get
  automatically assembled.  There is YAML metadata at the top of
  each.
* `index.md` is the main page, `guide.md` is the instructor's guide,
  and `reference.md` is the learner's reference guide.


## Creating new teaching material

Creating new teaching material is a longer process, because you should
go through the whole backwards lesson design process and get extensive
comments.  Still, don't feel afraid: nothing is perfect (or even good)
the first time.


### Conceptual approach

We should use the backwards lesson design process, mentioned above.  This is
extensively discussed in a [chapter of the book Teaching Teach
Together ("A lesson design
process")](https://teachtogether.tech/#s:process), but we have a
shorter summary for quicker reference and discussion in [the
coderefinery lesson-design
manual](https://github.com/coderefinery/manuals/blob/master/lesson-design.md).

Instead of duplicating information here, we will directly discuss the
design process with the CodeRefinery manual.


### Technical aspects

Again, lessons are developed on Github.

Copy the workshop repository template (TODO: where is it).

## Backwards design exercise

> ## Practice backwards design
>
> Choose a simple lesson topic and apply backwards lesson design.  You
> won't get all the way through, but come up with a logical
> progression of exercises.
>
> Some suggestions:
> - Regular expressions
> - Making papers in LaTeX
> - Making figures in your favorite programming language.
> - Linux shell basics
> - Something non-technical, such as painting a room
> - An instructor training for CodeRefinery
>
> How does this compare to other lessons you have designed?
>
{: .challenge}

> ## Backwards lesson design in practice (advanced)
>
> Was this instructor training material backwards-designed?  How can
> you tell?
>
{: .challenge}
