_episodes/07-partnership.md, before:

---
layout: episode
title: "Institutional partnerships and sustainability"
teaching: 20
exercises: 10
questions:
  - "How to support CodeRefinery?"
  - "What will happen after the end of CodeRefinery-2?"
objectives:
  - "Learn CodeRefinery sustainability plan."
  - "Discuss on how to become a CodeRefinery partner."
keypoints:
  - "CodeRefinery sustainability plan"
---

# CodeRefinery Sustainability plan

In October 2018 CodeRefinery entered the second phase of the project, with funding from [NeIC](https://neic.no)
until autumn 2021. A key objective for CodeRefinery 2.0 is to **render the project largely self-sustained after 
October 2021**. 


> ## Public documents 
> 
> Documents relating to the management of the CodeRefinery project, 
> including project directive and project plan, are available on 
> [this NeIC wiki page](https://wiki.neic.no/wiki/CodeRefinery)
{: .callout}


---


## Vision

- After phase 2, travel and accommodation for workshops will be financed by the hosting
  institution, similarly to the Carpentries model. 
- The lesson material will be maintained by the community and volunteers.
- Employers will be encouraged to allow instructors across Nordics to participate in-kind in 1-2 workshops/year. 
- A completely self-financed organization may not be realistic, but we aim to arrive at
  a project which can continue using 0.5 - 1 FTE/year for coordination.

Reaching this goal will depend on developing institutional recognition for the project.  
But how do we get there?

---

## Benefits 

Universities, e-Science initiatives and other organizations need to be convinced to
support or otherwise endorse CodeRefinery.  

The pitch can be quite simple - continuity of the CodeRefinery project will lead to:
- More competent scientists and researchers
  - Software development is a core part of research for many scientists and researchers in the Nordics 
  - CodeRefinery contributes to an increased competence in software development tools and techniques among scientists and researchers
  - Preparation and delivery of workshops is also a great learning opportunity for the instructors
- Better science
  - Reproducibility of research code
  - Reusable and extensible code
  - Collaborative learning and knowledge transfer

---

## Challenges

In theory, everyone is happy with training.  In practice, once it is
no longer free, how will it continue?

- Minimum effort needed for a workshop:
  - Coordination in months before workshop
  - Three instructor travel and accommodation for three days
  - Time to prepare, time to teach.
- Will institutions be able to budget for staff costs?

---

## Example: Recurring workshops

Aalto University and soon KTH provide examples of recurring workshops:

- A well-defined and connected target audience
- Local workshops twice a year
- One or two local (non-CodeRefinery staff) instructors locally
- Zero or one remote CodeRefinery instructors travel (and one or two
  CodeRefinery instructors already in the city).
- Workshops have been made "routine" - minimal advance discussion
  needed.

---

## Option 1

- Routine workshops
  - A host institution provides 1-2 local instructors
  - Host institution pays for 1-2 remote instructors to travel, but no salary
  - Host institution sends 1-2 instructors to some other remote
    workshop at a different partner.
- Bootstraping new members
  - Other sites kickstart a new institution by sending more
    instructors and demonstrating a full workshop.  Initial instructor
    training begins.
- Coordination
  - Funded by NeIC or by partner fees?
- Training and meetings
  - Yearly meeting and training funded somehow...

---

## Building a community

Building a community will be another essential requirement to reach sustainability.

Several avenues should be pursued:

- Train-the-trainer program
  - Promote, train, and certify future trainers at annual train-the-trainer workshops
- Symbiosis with The Carpentries and PRACE advanced training centers
  - CodeRefinery can be positioned as the second step after attending a Carpentry workshop
  - Coordinating with PRACE advanced training centers, embed CodeRefinery workshops within PRACE?
- Symbiosis with local units
  - Partner with universities to bring workshops to their community as a default service
  - Aalto Science IT to serve as perfect model
- [Research software engineer (RSE) community in the Nordics](http://nordic-rse.org/)
  - CodeRefinery can serve as a hub 
  - Bi-annual conferences, inspired by [UK-RSE](https://rse.ac.uk/conf2019/)

---

## What can you do?

- First and foremost: teach workshops!
- Spread the word. Tell friends and colleagues about upcoming workshops		
  and encourage them to become instructors
- Talk to your higher-ups. Is your employer willing to contribute in-kind?

> ## Discussion
> 
> - What do you think will be needed to reach sustainability?
> - How do you think the lesson material should be maintained after 
>   project funding ends?
> - What type of partnerships do you think are possible?
{: .task}

Commit message:

Add a "peer to peer" sustainability option for discussion

_episodes/07-partnership.md, after:

---
layout: episode
title: "Institutional partnerships and sustainability"
teaching: 20
exercises: 10
questions:
  - "How to support CodeRefinery?"
  - "What will happen after the end of CodeRefinery-2?"
objectives:
  - "Learn CodeRefinery sustainability plan."
  - "Discuss on how to become a CodeRefinery partner."
keypoints:
  - "CodeRefinery sustainability plan"
---

# CodeRefinery Sustainability plan

In October 2018 CodeRefinery entered the second phase of the project, with funding from [NeIC](https://neic.no)
until autumn 2021. A key objective for CodeRefinery 2.0 is to **render the project largely self-sustained after 
October 2021**. 


> ## Public documents 
> 
> Documents relating to the management of the CodeRefinery project, 
> including project directive and project plan, are available on 
> [this NeIC wiki page](https://wiki.neic.no/wiki/CodeRefinery)
{: .callout}


---


## Vision

- After phase 2, travel and accommodation for workshops will be financed by the hosting
  institution, similarly to the Carpentries model. 
- The lesson material will be maintained by the community and volunteers.
- Employers will be encouraged to allow instructors across Nordics to participate in-kind in 1-2 workshops/year. 
- A completely self-financed organization may not be realistic, but we aim to arrive at
  a project which can continue using 0.5 - 1 FTE/year for coordination.

Reaching this goal will depend on developing institutional recognition for the project.  
But how do we get there?

---

## Benefits 

Universities, e-Science initiatives and other organizations need to be convinced to
support or otherwise endorse CodeRefinery.  

The pitch can be quite simple - continuity of the CodeRefinery project will lead to:
- More competent scientists and researchers
  - Software development is a core part of research for many scientists and researchers in the Nordics 
  - CodeRefinery contributes to an increased competence in software development tools and techniques among scientists and researchers
  - Preparation and delivery of workshops is also a great learning opportunity for the instructors
- Better science
  - Reproducibility of research code
  - Reusable and extensible code
  - Collaborative learning and knowledge transfer

---

## Challenges

In theory, everyone is happy with training.  In practice, once it is
no longer free, how will it continue?

- Minimum effort needed for a workshop:
  - Coordination in months before workshop
  - Three instructor travel and accommodation for three days
  - Time to prepare, time to teach.
- Will institutions be able to budget for staff costs?

---

## Example: Recurring workshops

Aalto University and soon KTH provide examples of recurring workshops:

- A well-defined and connected target audience
- Local workshops twice a year
- One or two local (non-CodeRefinery staff) instructors locally
- Zero or one remote CodeRefinery instructors travel (and one or two
  CodeRefinery instructors already in the city).
- Workshops have been made "routine" - minimal advance discussion
  needed.

---

## Option 1

- Routine workshops
  - A host institution provides 1-2 local instructors
  - Host institution pays for 1-2 remote instructors to travel, but no salary
  - Host institution sends 1-2 instructors to some other remote
    workshop at a different partner.
- Bootstraping new members
  - Other sites kickstart a new institution by sending more
    instructors and demonstrating a full workshop.  Initial instructor
    training begins.
- Coordination
  - Central coordination, new institutions can easily join.
  - .5-1 FTE funded by NeIC or by partner fees?
- Training and meetings
  - Yearly meeting and training funded somehow...

---

## Option 2: peer to peer

A smaller way to start would be to take a core group of institutions
(e.g. Aalto and KTH) and they agree to send an instructor back and
forth twice a year for networking and teaching a workshop.  Possibly
as part of NordicHPC and other collaboration?  This would require less
central coordination, and eventually merge into option 1.

---

## Building a community

Building a community will be another essential requirement to reach sustainability.

Several avenues should be pursued:

- Train-the-trainer program
  - Promote, train, and certify future trainers at annual train-the-trainer workshops
- Symbiosis with The Carpentries and PRACE advanced training centers
  - CodeRefinery can be positioned as the second step after attending a Carpentry workshop
  - Coordinating with PRACE advanced training centers, embed CodeRefinery workshops within PRACE?
- Symbiosis with local units
  - Partner with universities to bring workshops to their community as a default service
  - Aalto Science IT to serve as perfect model
- [Research software engineer (RSE) community in the Nordics](http://nordic-rse.org/)
  - CodeRefinery can serve as a hub 
  - Bi-annual conferences, inspired by [UK-RSE](https://rse.ac.uk/conf2019/)

---

## What can you do?

- First and foremost: teach workshops!
- Spread the word. Tell friends and colleagues about upcoming workshops		
  and encourage them to become instructors
- Talk to your higher-ups. Is your employer willing to contribute in-kind?

> ## Discussion
> 
> - What do you think will be needed to reach sustainability?
> - How do you think the lesson material should be maintained after 
>   project funding ends?
> - What type of partnerships do you think are possible?
{: .task}
