_episodes/08-teaching.md, before:

---
layout: episode
title: "Digging into the lessons"
teaching: 15
exercises: 255
questions:
  - "What are CodeRefinery lessons' objectives?"
  - "How are the lessons taught?"
  - "How can we improve instructor guides or lesson material?"
objectives:
  - "Review and discuss CodeRefinery lessons and instructor guides"
  - "Practice teaching short snippets from lessons"
keypoints:
---

# CodeRefinery lessons

We will now split into groups and study, teach and discuss the 
CodeRefinery lessons. Each participant will join one group in each 
of the three sessions.

---

> ## Bad and good live coding examples
>  
> Teaching by live coding is a 
> [performance art which requires practice](https://teachtogether.tech/#s:performance-exercises).
> This exercise highlights some typical pitfalls that most instructors 
> fall into sooner or later, and also shows how to avoid them. 
> Watch closely since we will be giving feedback!
> - Watch first [this video](https://youtu.be/bXxBeNkKmJE)
> - Then watch [this video](https://youtu.be/SkPmwe_WjeY)
> - How is the second round of teaching better than the first? 
> - Is there anything that was better in the first than in the second?
> - Please give feedback in the shared workshop document.
{: .task}

---

## Lesson discussions 

- Each group will have a CodeRefinery instructor who will introduce 
  the lesson and guide the discussions. 
- Discussions may lead to suggestions for improvements in either lessons 
  or lesson instructor guides. These should be recorded as issues to 
  lesson repositories.
- The format will be flexible and should be adapted to the specifics of 
  each lesson, but a starting point can be:
  1. The instructor gives a high-level overview of the lesson and 
     reviews the instructor guide.
  2. Discussion of the intended learning outcomes and lesson episode structure.
  3. Episodes are distributed between subgroups (2-4 people), who study the 
     material.
  4. Within subgroups, participants study the episode, discuss it, and (if 
     relevant) take turns to present and live-code selected parts for 3-5 
     minutes. The other subgroup participants give feedback.
  5. Subgroups present thoughts and conclusions to the whole group.
  6. Steps 3-5 are repeated with a different distribution of episodes if 
     time allows.
  7. Instructor guide is again reviewed based on the discussions and 
     improvements are made directly or via issues.

---


### Exercises

Each group should engage in exercises to practice teaching or think more 
deeply about the material, but not all exercises are equally suitable to 
each lesson. Here are a few exercises that can be used for each lesson.

> ## Live coding practice
>
> - Choose an episode from the lesson you are working on, and think about how 
>   you could teach it.
> - Teach it to your group members for 3-5 minutes using your laptop 
>   (group members can sit next to the presenter).
>   See if you can practice the following skills:
>   - describing what you are doing while you type
>   - turning typos/mistakes into valuable learning experiences
> - After the demo, other group members give feedback on a 2x2 matrix, with 
>   [content, presentation] on one axis and [positive, negative] on the other.
{: .challenge}

> ## Design a new exercise
> 
> - Choose an episode/part of the lesson you are working on and study it.
> - Try to come up with an idea for a new exercise, and write it down.  
> - Group members try out the new exercise and give feedback:
>   - was it too hard or too easy?
>   - does it relate to any intended learning outcomes for the lesson?
>   - does it expose any possible misconceptions that learners might have?
{: .challenge}

> ## Design formative assessment
> 
> - Choose an episode/part of the lesson you are working on and study it.
> - Try to come up with a *formative assessment* question/problem for this episode.
> - The formative assessment should give feedback to both learners and 
>   instructors on whether a topic is correctly understood or if 
>   misconceptions remain.
{: .challenge}

> ## Create a concept map
> 
> - Choose an episode/part of the lesson you are working on and study it.
> - Create a *concept map* of the episode, where facts are represented as 
>   bubbles and lines between the bubbles denote their connections.
{: .challenge}

> ## Learning objectives
>
> - Give feedback on the presented learning objectives on two axes:
>   positive vs. negative and content vs. presentation.
> - Discuss the learning objectives and how they fit to CodeRefinery objectives
>   that are to improve researcher's best software practices.
>
{: .challenge}

---

### Part 1 (90 min)

We begin by discussing these lessons:

- [Git intro](https://coderefinery.github.io/git-intro/)
- [Modular code development](https://cicero.xyz/v3/remark/0.14.0/github.com/coderefinery/modular-code-development/master/talk.md)
- [Reproducible research](https://coderefinery.github.io/reproducible-research/)


> ## Summary and lessons learned
> 
> Summarize your discussions together (all groups) and discuss how to 
> improve the process for the next round of lesson discussions.
{: .task}

---

### Part 2 (90 min)

- [Documentation](https://coderefinery.github.io/documentation/)
- [Jupyter](https://coderefinery.github.io/jupyter/)
- [Social coding](https://cicero.xyz/v3/remark/0.14.0/github.com/coderefinery/social-coding/master/talk.md)


> ## Summary and lessons learned
> 
> Summarize your discussions together (all groups) and discuss how to 
> improve the process for the next round of lesson discussions.
{: .task}

---

### Part 3 (90 min)


- [Git collaborative](https://coderefinery.github.io/git-collaborative/)
- [Automated testing](https://coderefinery.github.io/testing/)
- Most popular lesson?


> ## Summary and lessons learned.
> 
> Summarize your discussions together (all groups).  
> What was valuable? What did you miss? What additional work is 
> required before you would feel comfortable teaching a lesson?
{: .task}

Commit message:

Lesson discussion: add links to review and design manuals

_episodes/08-teaching.md, after:

---
layout: episode
title: "Digging into the lessons"
teaching: 15
exercises: 255
questions:
  - "What are CodeRefinery lessons' objectives?"
  - "How are the lessons taught?"
  - "How can we improve instructor guides or lesson material?"
objectives:
  - "Review and discuss CodeRefinery lessons and instructor guides"
  - "Practice teaching short snippets from lessons"
keypoints:
---

# CodeRefinery lessons

We will now split into groups and study, teach and discuss the 
CodeRefinery lessons. Each participant will join one group in each 
of the three sessions.

---

> ## Bad and good live coding examples
>  
> Teaching by live coding is a 
> [performance art which requires practice](https://teachtogether.tech/#s:performance-exercises).
> This exercise highlights some typical pitfalls that most instructors 
> fall into sooner or later, and also shows how to avoid them. 
> Watch closely since we will be giving feedback!
> - Watch first [this video](https://youtu.be/bXxBeNkKmJE)
> - Then watch [this video](https://youtu.be/SkPmwe_WjeY)
> - How is the second round of teaching better than the first? 
> - Is there anything that was better in the first than in the second?
> - Please give feedback in the shared workshop document.
{: .task}

---

## Lesson discussions 

- Each group will have a CodeRefinery instructor who will introduce 
  the lesson and guide the discussions. 
- Discussions may lead to suggestions for improvements in either lessons 
  or lesson instructor guides. These should be recorded as issues to 
  lesson repositories.
- The format will be flexible and should be adapted to the specifics of 
  each lesson, but a starting point can be:
  1. The instructor gives a high-level overview of the lesson and 
     reviews the instructor guide.
  2. Discussion of the intended learning outcomes and lesson episode structure.
  3. Episodes are distributed between subgroups (2-4 people), who study the 
     material.
  4. Within subgroups, participants study the episode, discuss it, and (if 
     relevant) take turns to present and live-code selected parts for 3-5 
     minutes. The other subgroup participants give feedback.
  5. Subgroups present thoughts and conclusions to the whole group.
  6. Steps 3-5 are repeated with a different distribution of episodes if 
     time allows.
  7. Instructor guide is again reviewed based on the discussions and 
     improvements are made directly or via issues.
- You can refer to the [lesson review
  guide](https://github.com/coderefinery/manuals/blob/master/lesson-review.md)
  and the [lesson design
  guide](https://github.com/coderefinery/manuals/blob/master/lesson-design.md)
  for checklists for key points.


---


### Exercises

Each group should engage in exercises to practice teaching or think more 
deeply about the material, but not all exercises are equally suitable to 
each lesson. Here are a few exercises that can be used for each lesson.

> ## Live coding practice
>
> - Choose an episode from the lesson you are working on, and think about how 
>   you could teach it.
> - Teach it to your group members for 3-5 minutes using your laptop 
>   (group members can sit next to the presenter).
>   See if you can practice the following skills:
>   - describing what you are doing while you type
>   - turning typos/mistakes into valuable learning experiences
> - After the demo, other group members give feedback on a 2x2 matrix, with 
>   [content, presentation] on one axis and [positive, negative] on the other.
{: .challenge}

> ## Design a new exercise
> 
> - Choose an episode/part of the lesson you are working on and study it.
> - Try to come up with an idea for a new exercise, and write it down.  
> - Group members try out the new exercise and give feedback:
>   - was it too hard or too easy?
>   - does it relate to any intended learning outcomes for the lesson?
>   - does it expose any possible misconceptions that learners might have?
{: .challenge}

> ## Design formative assessment
> 
> - Choose an episode/part of the lesson you are working on and study it.
> - Try to come up with a *formative assessment* question/problem for this episode.
> - The formative assessment should give feedback to both learners and 
>   instructors on whether a topic is correctly understood or if 
>   misconceptions remain.
{: .challenge}

> ## Create a concept map
> 
> - Choose an episode/part of the lesson you are working on and study it.
> - Create a *concept map* of the episode, where facts are represented as 
>   bubbles and lines between the bubbles denote their connections.
{: .challenge}

> ## Learning objectives
>
> - Give feedback on the presented learning objectives on two axes:
>   positive vs. negative and content vs. presentation.
> - Discuss the learning objectives and how they fit to CodeRefinery objectives
>   that are to improve researcher's best software practices.
>
{: .challenge}

---

### Part 1 (90 min)

We begin by discussing these lessons:

- [Git intro](https://coderefinery.github.io/git-intro/)
- [Modular code development](https://cicero.xyz/v3/remark/0.14.0/github.com/coderefinery/modular-code-development/master/talk.md)
- [Reproducible research](https://coderefinery.github.io/reproducible-research/)


> ## Summary and lessons learned
> 
> Summarize your discussions together (all groups) and discuss how to 
> improve the process for the next round of lesson discussions.
{: .task}

---

### Part 2 (90 min)

- [Documentation](https://coderefinery.github.io/documentation/)
- [Jupyter](https://coderefinery.github.io/jupyter/)
- [Social coding](https://cicero.xyz/v3/remark/0.14.0/github.com/coderefinery/social-coding/master/talk.md)


> ## Summary and lessons learned
> 
> Summarize your discussions together (all groups) and discuss how to 
> improve the process for the next round of lesson discussions.
{: .task}

---

### Part 3 (90 min)


- [Git collaborative](https://coderefinery.github.io/git-collaborative/)
- [Automated testing](https://coderefinery.github.io/testing/)
- Most popular lesson?


> ## Summary and lessons learned.
> 
> Summarize your discussions together (all groups).  
> What was valuable? What did you miss? What additional work is 
> required before you would feel comfortable teaching a lesson?
{: .task}
