_episodes/09-future.md, before:

---
layout: episode
title: "Future"
teaching: 0
exercises: 90
questions:
  - "Are we missing any lessons in CodeRefinery?"
  - "What teaching material should we develop?"
  - "What is our broader picture?"
objectives:
  - "Brainstorming about new lessons"
keypoints:
  - "Roadmap for new lessons"
---

## Near future of CodeRefinery

- How to get new workshop requests?
- How to get attendee interest?
- How to get instructor interest?
- What's our capacity for workshops?


## Brainstorming about new lessons

- What lessons are useful and don't exist?
- Which of these are in the scope of CodeRefinery?
- What is an appropriate length and level of modularity for lessons,
  so that they can be most easily reused?


## Roadmap for future CodeRefinery lessons


## Nordic Research Software Engineer network

- CodeRefinery is trying to start a network of Research Software
  Engineers in the Nordics.
- Nordic RSE conference in 2020.


## Hands-on Scientific Computing

We have *plenty* of lessons.  So does Software Carpentry, and all the
rest of the Internet.  Yet this still isn't enough.

* There is information overload.  How does one know what to study?
* How do you know which lessons are suitable to your level?
* How do we convey the importance (and relative competence levels) to
  those involved in student and researcher training.

[Hands-on Scientific
Computing](https://handsonscicomp.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) is a
course idea, started at Aalto University but essentially a join
CodeRefinery project, to organize existing material into different
levels of competence, so that we can convey.

Hands-on SciComp isn't actually supposed to be a course.  It's
supposed to *organize* existing courses into a logical program for
self-study and possible academic use.

> ## Think about mis-matched courses
>
> When have you or others been to a course which has been mismatched
> to the audience or expectations?
>
{: .challenge}

Hand-on SciComp is organized by:

* Levels (A to F), indicating the overall level of
  competence.  For example, C is "Linux and shell" while D is
  "Clusters and HPC".
* Modules, a small, self-contained topic which one can get begin to
  understand in 10 minutes and learn the basics of in 60 minutes.
* Different types of material for different learning styles:
  * A 10-15 minute video introduction, that explains why it's
    important, shows some live examples, and give a taste of what is
    to come
  * Link(s) to reading material, some of which can be understood in
    about an hour.
  * A "site-specific" column, which allows the material to be
    customized for different locations.

Learner personas:

* Our [initial user
  interviews](https://github.com/coderefinery/handsonscicomp/issues/8)
  can be found on Github.  These show a strong need of a program such
  as HoSC.
* A is a researcher who has just started.  They have a good academic
  background, but not so much experience in Linux or non-academic
  programming.  They discuss with their supervisor, who says that they
  should have a good understanding of the A, B, and C levels, with
  some experience in D.  They should study this before beginning their
  research work.
* B is a new student in a data-sciencey field.  They are learning lots
  of academic skills, but don't have the network to learn Linux or
  practical programming skills (this isn't considered an academic
  field in this program).  Without tools such as git or shell, they
  can't work quickly.  HoSC serves as a parallel, practical guide to
  students.

Short-term plan:

* Study the levels and modules, and determine what the good set is.
* Understand needs of other partners: how can we cover all needs
  without being too specific?

Medium-term plan:

* Ideally, we won't be making any of our own material: we'll just link
  to the existing best material which is already available.
* We'll have to add our own framing and connecting, to express the
  high-level connections of the modules and practical work.
* Where needed, we'll fill in our material or encourage other groups
  to make the material we are missing.

Long-term plan:

* Collaborative, open-project project
* Connection to researcher training.
* Connection to academic degree programs.
* Promote modularization of lessons, so that they can be more easily
  re-used in programs like this.


## Broader scientific computing plan in Nordics

CodeRefinery is just one aspect of support.  We have thought of three
key aspects of scientific computing that need to connect:

* Easier to use infrastructure (e.g. computational clusters - being
  developed in the new [NordicHPC](https://nordichpc.github.io)
  project)
* Training and teaching (CodeRefinery)
* Hands-on support (Research Software Engineer network)

All of these are under development, and are somehow related to the
CodeRefinery team.

Each of these three things should coordinate with the other.  One
favorite example is: if something about using the HPC clusters is
difficult to teach, perhaps you should just fix the infrastructure so
that you don't have to teach the quirk.  Problems you see during
hands-on support should be relayed back to the teaching and to the
infrastructure teams.

How should these be coordinated?  Our current idea is to:

* Develop NordicHPC is an cluster collaboration, not of hardware, but
  of sysadmin tips and tricks with a focus on usability and
  standardization.
* Make CodeRefinery self-sustaining
* Develop a Research Software Engineer network in the Nordics, with
  meetings and training.

Perhaps each of these can have one big yearly meeting, with each of
the other two groups having a presentations and co-located events at
the other two.

CodeRefinery is funded by the [Nordic e-Infrastructure
Collaboration](https://neic.no), and NordicHPC probably will be as
well.  Thus, NeIC is a logical coordinating and funding body.

Nordics (everything in NeIC) are logical size for collaboration:
local, existing connections, but we don't want to be exclusive.


> ## Existing organizations
>
> What existing organizations in your locations are working on similar
> problems?
{: .challenge}

Commit message:

how do we even reach possible attendees?

_episodes/09-future.md, after:

---
layout: episode
title: "Future"
teaching: 0
exercises: 90
questions:
  - "Are we missing any lessons in CodeRefinery?"
  - "What teaching material should we develop?"
  - "What is our broader picture?"
objectives:
  - "Brainstorming about new lessons"
keypoints:
  - "Roadmap for new lessons"
---

## Near future of CodeRefinery

- How to get new workshop requests?
- How to get attendee interest?
- How to reach research groups who don't know about this project?
- How to get instructor interest?
- What's our capacity for workshops?


## Brainstorming about new lessons

- What lessons are useful and don't exist?
- Which of these are in the scope of CodeRefinery?
- What is an appropriate length and level of modularity for lessons,
  so that they can be most easily reused?


## Roadmap for future CodeRefinery lessons


## Nordic Research Software Engineer network

- CodeRefinery is trying to start a network of Research Software
  Engineers in the Nordics.
- Nordic RSE conference in 2020.


## Hands-on Scientific Computing

We have *plenty* of lessons.  So does Software Carpentry, and all the
rest of the Internet.  Yet this still isn't enough.

* There is information overload.  How does one know what to study?
* How do you know which lessons are suitable to your level?
* How do we convey the importance (and relative competence levels) to
  those involved in student and researcher training.

[Hands-on Scientific
Computing](https://handsonscicomp.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) is a
course idea, started at Aalto University but essentially a join
CodeRefinery project, to organize existing material into different
levels of competence, so that we can convey.

Hands-on SciComp isn't actually supposed to be a course.  It's
supposed to *organize* existing courses into a logical program for
self-study and possible academic use.

> ## Think about mis-matched courses
>
> When have you or others been to a course which has been mismatched
> to the audience or expectations?
>
{: .challenge}

Hand-on SciComp is organized by:

* Levels (A to F), indicating the overall level of
  competence.  For example, C is "Linux and shell" while D is
  "Clusters and HPC".
* Modules, a small, self-contained topic which one can get begin to
  understand in 10 minutes and learn the basics of in 60 minutes.
* Different types of material for different learning styles:
  * A 10-15 minute video introduction, that explains why it's
    important, shows some live examples, and give a taste of what is
    to come
  * Link(s) to reading material, some of which can be understood in
    about an hour.
  * A "site-specific" column, which allows the material to be
    customized for different locations.

Learner personas:

* Our [initial user
  interviews](https://github.com/coderefinery/handsonscicomp/issues/8)
  can be found on Github.  These show a strong need of a program such
  as HoSC.
* A is a researcher who has just started.  They have a good academic
  background, but not so much experience in Linux or non-academic
  programming.  They discuss with their supervisor, who says that they
  should have a good understanding of the A, B, and C levels, with
  some experience in D.  They should study this before beginning their
  research work.
* B is a new student in a data-sciencey field.  They are learning lots
  of academic skills, but don't have the network to learn Linux or
  practical programming skills (this isn't considered an academic
  field in this program).  Without tools such as git or shell, they
  can't work quickly.  HoSC serves as a parallel, practical guide to
  students.

Short-term plan:

* Study the levels and modules, and determine what the good set is.
* Understand needs of other partners: how can we cover all needs
  without being too specific?

Medium-term plan:

* Ideally, we won't be making any of our own material: we'll just link
  to the existing best material which is already available.
* We'll have to add our own framing and connecting, to express the
  high-level connections of the modules and practical work.
* Where needed, we'll fill in our material or encourage other groups
  to make the material we are missing.

Long-term plan:

* Collaborative, open-project project
* Connection to researcher training.
* Connection to academic degree programs.
* Promote modularization of lessons, so that they can be more easily
  re-used in programs like this.


## Broader scientific computing plan in Nordics

CodeRefinery is just one aspect of support.  We have thought of three
key aspects of scientific computing that need to connect:

* Easier to use infrastructure (e.g. computational clusters - being
  developed in the new [NordicHPC](https://nordichpc.github.io)
  project)
* Training and teaching (CodeRefinery)
* Hands-on support (Research Software Engineer network)

All of these are under development, and are somehow related to the
CodeRefinery team.

Each of these three things should coordinate with the other.  One
favorite example is: if something about using the HPC clusters is
difficult to teach, perhaps you should just fix the infrastructure so
that you don't have to teach the quirk.  Problems you see during
hands-on support should be relayed back to the teaching and to the
infrastructure teams.

How should these be coordinated?  Our current idea is to:

* Develop NordicHPC is an cluster collaboration, not of hardware, but
  of sysadmin tips and tricks with a focus on usability and
  standardization.
* Make CodeRefinery self-sustaining
* Develop a Research Software Engineer network in the Nordics, with
  meetings and training.

Perhaps each of these can have one big yearly meeting, with each of
the other two groups having a presentations and co-located events at
the other two.

CodeRefinery is funded by the [Nordic e-Infrastructure
Collaboration](https://neic.no), and NordicHPC probably will be as
well.  Thus, NeIC is a logical coordinating and funding body.

Nordics (everything in NeIC) are logical size for collaboration:
local, existing connections, but we don't want to be exclusive.


> ## Existing organizations
>
> What existing organizations in your locations are working on similar
> problems?
{: .challenge}
