content/collaboration-models.rst, before:

Collaboration models
====================



Model: CodeRefinery
-------------------

* Before Covid-19, workshops were physically around the Nordics,
  instructors would travel (or already be there).

  * Maximum size: ~40 people
  * High workload per person

* After several small scaling attempts, now we have:

  * Two large workshops per year - livestream format
  * Combined organization efforts
  * Instructors from each location - on average two lessons taught.
  * Locations with staff can have **local breakout rooms**: physical
    place to help during exercises.

* Others in the world can register and interact using HackMD, but no
  promises of help.

* Content still available to anyone in the world: live + instant
  replay.

* Course page and material:
  https://coderefinery.github.io/2022-03-22-workshop/



Model: Python for Scientific Computing
--------------------------------------

* Aalto Scientific Computing wanted to host a course, **Python for
  Scientific Computing**
* ASC came up with initial vision and announced it
* ASC hosted an open initial meeting, inviting any interested
  organizers or instructors
* We went over the plan and refined the topics and schedule.  We also
  decided things such as the date, organizers, and instructors for
  each lesson.
* Registration was open to everyone in the world, non-Nordic
  participants could watch via livestream.
* People prepared their parts and came together and presented.
  Organizers kept everything on track.
* **Compared to the amount of effort each person put in, the results
  were great.**
* A 2021 version also happened and was even larger.
* Course page: https://scicomp.aalto.fi/training/scip/python-for-scicomp/
* Material: https://aaltoscicomp.github.io/python-for-scicomp/



Exercises
---------

.. exercise:: List successes and failures in collaborative teaching

   Using HackMD, list some successes and failures in collaborative
   teaching that you have experienced.


See also
--------

(none yet)

Commit message:

iteration on co-teaching material, added an exercise

content/collaboration-models.rst, after:

Collaboration models
====================



Model: CodeRefinery
-------------------

* Before Covid-19, workshops were physically around the Nordics,
  instructors would travel (or already be there).

  * Maximum size: ~40 people
  * High workload per person

* After several small scaling attempts, now we have:

  * Two large workshops per year - livestream format
  * Combined organization efforts
  * Instructors from each location - on average two lessons taught.
  * Locations with staff can have **local breakout rooms**: physical
    place to help during exercises.

* Others in the world can register and interact using HackMD, but no
  promises of help.

* Content still available to anyone in the world: live + instant
  replay.

* Course page and material:
  https://coderefinery.github.io/2022-03-22-workshop/



Model: Python for Scientific Computing
--------------------------------------

* Aalto Scientific Computing wanted to host a course, **Python for
  Scientific Computing**
* ASC came up with initial vision and announced it
* ASC hosted an open initial meeting, inviting any interested
  organizers or instructors
* We went over the plan and refined the topics and schedule.  We also
  decided things such as the date, organizers, and instructors for
  each lesson.
* Registration was open to everyone in the world, non-Nordic
  participants could watch via livestream.
* People prepared their parts and came together and presented.
  Organizers kept everything on track.
* **Compared to the amount of effort each person put in, the results
  were great.**
* A 2021 version also happened and was even larger.
* Course page: https://scicomp.aalto.fi/training/scip/python-for-scicomp/
* Material: https://aaltoscicomp.github.io/python-for-scicomp/



Exercises
---------

.. exercise:: List successes and failures in collaborative teaching

   Using HackMD, list some successes and failures in collaborative
   teaching that you have experienced.

.. exercise:: Recommendations for co-teaching

   If you have experience with co-teaching, what approach/technique/trick
   can you recommend a colleague who would like to try co-teaching for the
   first time?
