content/diversity-and-inclusion.rst, before:

Diversity and inclusion
=======================

When we are teaching, we fill a critical role in between people and
technology.  We are not un-involved technical staff teaching asocial
topics, but we are very connected to the social context of the tools.
Unfortunately, there are major demographic imbalances in most
computing.



Support services vs diversity
-----------------------------

Study this presentation by Richard Darst:

* Watch: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z1VS1wleN-o
* Or read: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vQkzOMFI5SFnx69D4qRq_3N-mtcv7GUbPZd4A6UYpEKZUMGK0FL5W0RsSe6Alzxv1nE635Yl1GpyCKk/pub

Summary:

* Computing is hard and quite often our ability to learn quickly is
  connected to our social group.
* Good technical services serve the role of mentors
* This mentorship helps to equalize
* Our entire system of research should be configured for more
  equality.  Modernization usually takes it the other way.



Exercises
---------

.. exercise::

   How can your job promote diversity and equality among people of
   different backgrounds?



See also
--------

(none yet)

Commit message:

content/diversity-and-inclusion: Add some links from carpentries

content/diversity-and-inclusion.rst, after:

Diversity and inclusion
=======================

When we are teaching, we fill a critical role in between people and
technology.  We are not un-involved technical staff teaching asocial
topics, but we are very connected to the social context of the tools.
Unfortunately, there are major demographic imbalances in most
computing.



Primary articles
----------------

* Several sections from the Carpentries Instructor Training:
  `Motivation and demotivation
  <https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/08-motivation/index.html>`__
  and `Equity, inclusion, accessibility
  <https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/09-eia/index.html>`__.
* Exercise leaders `During the workshop
  <https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/exercise-leaders/#during-the-workshop>`__



Support services vs diversity
-----------------------------

Study this presentation by Richard Darst:

* Watch: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z1VS1wleN-o
* Or read: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vQkzOMFI5SFnx69D4qRq_3N-mtcv7GUbPZd4A6UYpEKZUMGK0FL5W0RsSe6Alzxv1nE635Yl1GpyCKk/pub

Summary:

* Computing is hard and quite often our ability to learn quickly is
  connected to our social group.
* Good technical services serve the role of mentors
* This mentorship helps to equalize
* Our entire system of research should be configured for more
  equality.  Modernization usually takes it the other way.



Exercises
---------

.. exercise:: Reflect on how your job can be defined to promote diversity.

   What are some (possibly surprising) ways that your job promote
   diversity and equality among people of different backgrounds?



See also
--------

(none yet)
