content/index.rst, before:

Community teaching training
===========================

.. admonition:: Under development (early 2022)

   As of Spring 2022, this is the new version of our previous
   `Instructor training
   <https://coderefinery.github.io/instructor-training/>`__ and is
   still under development - there is an outline but content is not
   there yet.

In 2020, we got farther from our offices but closer to each other.  If
you could adapt to the circumstances, a huge number of possibilities
were opened - in particular with collaborative teaching.  In this
training, you will learn how to use them.  Teaching from 2019 is
almost obsolete - join us to learn more.

Teaching is a profession, but also something that everyone needs to be
able to do to some degree, since everyone has their own personal
specialties they will either teach or mentor.

Broadly, this covers:

- **Tools of teaching**: how to make the most out of online (and
  other) teaching
- **Workshop organization, collaboratively**: our vision of teaching
  together outside of our silos.
- **Socio-technical factors**: social and technical barriers to
  learning, why you need to care, and what you can do about them.
- **Lesson development, collaboratively**: how to design lessons and
  teaching materials so that they can be open and shared.

.. prereq::

   This course has no strict prerequisites, but

   * It is helpful if you have attended CodeRefinery or Carpentries
     workshops, which teach in an interactive and hands-on way.

   * We assume you already have competence in the technical tools you
     want to teach.  Many of our concepts use examples from
     CodeRefinery lessons, such as version control or other software
     development tools.

   * While not a prerequisite for this course, version control (git)
     is necessary to contribute to lessons development the way we show
     here (but the lesson design concepts are applicable to other
     styles, too).


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Preparation

   preparation


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Introduction

   welcome
   about-coderefinery


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Teaching tools

   teaching-online
   team-teaching
   hackmd
   teams
   livestreaming
   instructor-tech-setup
   video-recording
   video-editing


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Workshop organization

   why-teach-together
   collaboration-models
   workshop-roles
..
   Online workshops (placeholder) <placeholder>


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Social-technical considerations

   Why are computers hard? (placeholder) <placeholder>
   Diversity and inclusion (placeholder) <placeholder>
   Accessibility and usability (placeholder) <placeholder>
   Mentoring (placeholder) <placeholder>


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Lesson design and development

   lessons-with-version-control
   backward-lesson-design
   Getting collaborators (placeholder) <placeholder>


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Outro

   future.md
   coderefinery-workshops


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Reference

   quick-reference
   other-resources
   guide
   exercise-list


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: [old contents]

   welcome.md
   about-coderefinery.md
   02-teaching-philosophies.md
   03-teaching-style.md
   workshops-online.md
   lesson-design.md
   lesson-development.md
   teaching-strategies
   teaching-practice.md
   future.md
   coderefinery-workshops



.. _learner-personas:

Who is the course for?
----------------------

You run a practical teaching program at your institution (for example
as part of a research computing group) and would like to learn best
practices for collaborative teaching, so that you aren't re-inventing
the same thing over and over again.

You are a technical specialist who is frustrated with the way you
currently try to teach others who need to use your software or
infrastructure.  You can't spend too much time to become a
professional, but you know you need something more than what you've
been doing.  Thus, you would like to adopt some of the best practices of
designing and teaching interactive, hands-on workshops.

You've been teaching alone, but would like to join a collaboration
network for more co-teaching and to reduce the amount of duplication
of effort.

You are interested in teaching CodeRefinery lessons, and would like a
comprehensive kickstart to how CodeRefinery works either to join us,
or teach its lessons with us or independently.



See also
--------

* `The old "CodeRefinery instructor training" program
  <https://coderefinery.github.io/instructor-training/>`__ - this is
  replaced by what you are reading now.
* `CodeRefinery manuals <https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/>`__
* Our gradual pathway to instructor from the manuals: `helper intro
  <https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/helper-intro/>`__ and
  `instructor intro
  <https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/instructor-intro/>`__.
* `Carpentries instructor training
  <https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/>`__ - more
  intensive, but focused only on teaching.
* `Carpentries curriculum development handbook
  <https://cdh.carpentries.org/>`__
* `Teaching Tech Together <https://teachtogether.tech/>`__, a book
  about similar topics by someone involved in Carpentries.
* `Carpentries general organizational documentation
  <https://docs.carpentries.org/>`__

Commit message:

content/index: Fix top warning about lifecycle

content/index.rst, after:

Community teaching training
===========================

.. admonition:: Under development (mid 2022)

   As of mid-2022, a first attempt at this material is being completed
   for our summer workshop.  The material will continue to be improved
   before a longer training session in the autumn.

   This material is the new version of our previous `Instructor
   training <https://coderefinery.github.io/instructor-training/>`__.

In 2020, we got farther from our offices but closer to each other.  If
you could adapt to the circumstances, a huge number of possibilities
were opened - in particular with collaborative teaching.  In this
training, you will learn how to use them.  Teaching from 2019 is
almost obsolete - join us to learn more.

Teaching is a profession, but also something that everyone needs to be
able to do to some degree, since everyone has their own personal
specialties they will either teach or mentor.

Broadly, this covers:

- **Tools of teaching**: how to make the most out of online (and
  other) teaching
- **Workshop organization, collaboratively**: our vision of teaching
  together outside of our silos.
- **Socio-technical factors**: social and technical barriers to
  learning, why you need to care, and what you can do about them.
- **Lesson development, collaboratively**: how to design lessons and
  teaching materials so that they can be open and shared.

.. prereq::

   This course has no strict prerequisites, but

   * It is helpful if you have attended CodeRefinery or Carpentries
     workshops, which teach in an interactive and hands-on way.

   * We assume you already have competence in the technical tools you
     want to teach.  Many of our concepts use examples from
     CodeRefinery lessons, such as version control or other software
     development tools.

   * While not a prerequisite for this course, version control (git)
     is necessary to contribute to lessons development the way we show
     here (but the lesson design concepts are applicable to other
     styles, too).


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Preparation

   preparation


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Introduction

   welcome
   about-coderefinery


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Teaching tools

   teaching-online
   team-teaching
   hackmd
   teams
   livestreaming
   instructor-tech-setup
   video-recording
   video-editing


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Workshop organization

   why-teach-together
   collaboration-models
   workshop-roles
..
   Online workshops (placeholder) <placeholder>


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Social-technical considerations

   Why are computers hard? (placeholder) <placeholder>
   Diversity and inclusion (placeholder) <placeholder>
   Accessibility and usability (placeholder) <placeholder>
   Mentoring (placeholder) <placeholder>


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Lesson design and development

   lessons-with-version-control
   backward-lesson-design
   Getting collaborators (placeholder) <placeholder>


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Outro

   future.md
   coderefinery-workshops


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Reference

   quick-reference
   other-resources
   guide
   exercise-list


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: [old contents]

   welcome.md
   about-coderefinery.md
   02-teaching-philosophies.md
   03-teaching-style.md
   workshops-online.md
   lesson-design.md
   lesson-development.md
   teaching-strategies
   teaching-practice.md
   future.md
   coderefinery-workshops



.. _learner-personas:

Who is the course for?
----------------------

You run a practical teaching program at your institution (for example
as part of a research computing group) and would like to learn best
practices for collaborative teaching, so that you aren't re-inventing
the same thing over and over again.

You are a technical specialist who is frustrated with the way you
currently try to teach others who need to use your software or
infrastructure.  You can't spend too much time to become a
professional, but you know you need something more than what you've
been doing.  Thus, you would like to adopt some of the best practices of
designing and teaching interactive, hands-on workshops.

You've been teaching alone, but would like to join a collaboration
network for more co-teaching and to reduce the amount of duplication
of effort.

You are interested in teaching CodeRefinery lessons, and would like a
comprehensive kickstart to how CodeRefinery works either to join us,
or teach its lessons with us or independently.



See also
--------

* `The old "CodeRefinery instructor training" program
  <https://coderefinery.github.io/instructor-training/>`__ - this is
  replaced by what you are reading now.
* `CodeRefinery manuals <https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/>`__
* Our gradual pathway to instructor from the manuals: `helper intro
  <https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/helper-intro/>`__ and
  `instructor intro
  <https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/instructor-intro/>`__.
* `Carpentries instructor training
  <https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/>`__ - more
  intensive, but focused only on teaching.
* `Carpentries curriculum development handbook
  <https://cdh.carpentries.org/>`__
* `Teaching Tech Together <https://teachtogether.tech/>`__, a book
  about similar topics by someone involved in Carpentries.
* `Carpentries general organizational documentation
  <https://docs.carpentries.org/>`__
