content/index.md, before:

# Train the trainer workshop

::::{admonition} August/September 2024 CodeRefinery train the trainer workshop

Do you teach use the use of computers and computational tools? Are you curious about scaling your training and learn about pre-loved practices from CodeRefinery workshops and other trainers? Join us for the CodeRefinery train the trainer workshop: four self-contained episodes on pre-loved practices in computational training. This is a great chance to enhance your teaching skills and learn about new tools and practices. What you will learn is also used a lot outside CodeRefinery, whenever good beginner friendly training is needed.

**Learning objectives:**
- Become mentally ready to be an instructor in a collaborative interactive online workshop (not only large workshops but in general)
- Learn about tools and techniques and practice to create engaging online teaching experiences (screenshare, audio, etc.).

**Target audience:**
- Previous and future instructors and helpers of CodeRefinery workshops
- Everyone teaching online workshops about computational topics or interested in teaching.

**Prerequisites:**
An interest in teaching.

**Content and timing:**

The workshop consists of four sessions every Tuesday between August 13th and September 3rd 2024, 9-12 CEST:

- Session 1: Contributing to and reusing CodeRefinery lesson materials (Aug 13)
- Session 2: Tools and techniques adopted in CodeRefinery workshops (Aug 20)
- Session 3: About teaching & cool things we all would like to share (Aug 27)
- Session 4: Workshop streaming practices and post-workshop tasks (Sep 3)

You can join all sessions, or the just the ones that interest you. More details on each session will be shared later. 

The workshop is **free of charge for everyone**, please register below to get the Zoom link and other useful information for the workshop.

:::{button-link} https://indico.neic.no/e/CR-ttt24
:color: primary
:shadow:

Registration
:::

If you have any questions, please write to <support@coderefinery.org>.
::::

```{admonition} Materials are work in progress
Materials will appear here before the workshop.
You can find materials of previous similar trainings using the links below:

- First version of the course in 2019 and then in 2020:
<https://coderefinery.github.io/train-the-trainer/branch/instructor-training/>
- Reworked material for our summer workshop 2022 and
for the CarpentryCon 2022 workshop:
<https://coderefinery.github.io/train-the-trainer/branch/community-teaching/>
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: Session 1

lesson-template
lesson-development
post-workshop-survey
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: Session 2

overview
onboarding
co-teaching
screenshare
sound
collaborative-notes
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: Session 3

computational-thinking
teaching-philosophies
cool-gems
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: Session 4

streaming
video-editing
```

Commit message:

update in learning objectives
- reordered them to start with those that are applicable to most (?)
- added learning objective about designing and developing lesson
  material (unless this is not the focus here)

content/index.md, after:

# Train the trainer workshop

::::{admonition} August/September 2024 CodeRefinery train the trainer workshop

Do you teach use the use of computers and computational tools? Are you curious about scaling your training and learn about pre-loved practices from CodeRefinery workshops and other trainers? Join us for the CodeRefinery train the trainer workshop: four self-contained episodes on pre-loved practices in computational training. This is a great chance to enhance your teaching skills and learn about new tools and practices. What you will learn is also used a lot outside CodeRefinery, whenever good beginner friendly training is needed.

**Learning objectives:**
- Learn about tools and techniques and practice to create engaging online teaching experiences (screenshare, audio, etc.).
- Become mentally ready to be an instructor in a collaborative interactive online workshop (not only large workshops but in general).
- Learn how to design and develop lesson material collaboratively.

**Target audience:**
- Everyone teaching online workshops about computational topics or interested in teaching.
- Previous and future instructors and helpers of CodeRefinery workshops.

**Prerequisites:**
An interest in teaching.

**Content and timing:**

The workshop consists of four sessions every Tuesday between August 13th and September 3rd 2024, 9-12 CEST:

- Session 1: Contributing to and reusing CodeRefinery lesson materials (Aug 13)
- Session 2: Tools and techniques adopted in CodeRefinery workshops (Aug 20)
- Session 3: About teaching & cool things we all would like to share (Aug 27)
- Session 4: Workshop streaming practices and post-workshop tasks (Sep 3)

You can join all sessions, or the just the ones that interest you. More details on each session will be shared later. 

The workshop is **free of charge for everyone**, please register below to get the Zoom link and other useful information for the workshop.

:::{button-link} https://indico.neic.no/e/CR-ttt24
:color: primary
:shadow:

Registration
:::

If you have any questions, please write to <support@coderefinery.org>.
::::

```{admonition} Materials are work in progress
Materials will appear here before the workshop.
You can find materials of previous similar trainings using the links below:

- First version of the course in 2019 and then in 2020:
<https://coderefinery.github.io/train-the-trainer/branch/instructor-training/>
- Reworked material for our summer workshop 2022 and
for the CarpentryCon 2022 workshop:
<https://coderefinery.github.io/train-the-trainer/branch/community-teaching/>
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: Session 1

lesson-template
lesson-development
post-workshop-survey
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: Session 2

overview
onboarding
co-teaching
screenshare
sound
collaborative-notes
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: Session 3

computational-thinking
teaching-philosophies
cool-gems
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: Session 4

streaming
video-editing
```
