content/lesson-design.md, before:

# Lesson design

```{prereq} Recommended reading
- CodeRefinery [lesson-design](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/lesson-design/) manual
- [The Carpentries Curriculum Development Handbook](https://cdh.carpentries.org)
- [Teaching Tech Together](http://teachtogether.tech/)
- Our [summary](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/teaching-tech-together/) of "Teaching Tech Together"
- [Ten quick tips for creating an effective lesson](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1006915)
```

---

## How do you design?

```{discussion}
Discuss either in groups or via collaborative document:
- How do you start when you design a new lesson/presentation?
- Has your approach changed over the years? If yes, how?
```

---

## Backwards lesson design

### The approach

- You don't think about how to do something and try to explain it.
- Avoid the typical approach *"I want to show a number of things which I think are cool about
  tool X - how do I press these into 90 minutes?"*
- Instead, you start defining your target audience by answering to questions such **What is the expected educational level of my audience?**, **Have they been already exposed to the technologies I am planning to teach?**, **What tools do they already use?**, **what are the main issues they are currently experiencing**. It is important to discuss these points with a group of colleagues, preferably from diverse backgrounds and institutions to reduce biases. Once you clarified your target audience, it is useful to create **learner personas**; that will help you during the development process by providing concrete examples of potential learners showing up at your workshops. For each **learner personas**, try to think of what is
  **useful to them**: *"What do they **need** to [remember/understand/apply/analyze/evaluate/create](https://coderefinery.github.io/instructor-training/03-teaching-style/#using-bloom-s-taxonomy-to-write-effective-learning-objectives)?"*. Asking and answering to these questions will allow you to define the background knowledge (starting points) and goals (end points) of your learners. 
  Then, you create a sequence of exercises which test
  incrementally progressing tasks and acquisition of the new skills (from starting to end points).
- Then, you write the minimum amount
  of material to teach the gap between exercises.

### The process

For the whole process, see [our
manual](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/lesson-design/#backwards-lesson-design)
(instructor discusses these points briefly).


### Why is it good to have a process?:

- Having a semi-rigid design process can **save time** to start drafting.
- It allows collaborative development of teaching material.
- It will probably **increase quality and relevance** of lessons for learners.
- **We aren't perfect yet.**  CodeRefinery is still striving to get
  better at this, and we are more ad-hoc than you might think.
  A number of our lessons have not been designed this way but we are now improving
  these lessons with the backwards lesson design in mind.


### Designing exercises


The goal of exercises is twofold:
- instructors can assess the progress of learners.
- learners put in practice the skills that you have included in your skills list. 

When designing exercises, consider that some participants will get stuck
and may want to re-join at a later exercise. In other words it is nice
if exercises build up on each other but not at the cost that if participants
get stuck at exercise 2, they will not be able to do exercises 3 to N.

---

## Practice backwards design


```{discussion} The goal here is to discuss and provide examples on backwards-design of a lesson.

Let's take as an example the *[HPC Carpentry lesson](https://hpc-carpentry.github.io/hpc-intro/)*

**Target audience**
  - What is the expected educational level of my audience?
      - A PhD student, postdoc or young researcher.
  - Have they been already exposed to the technologies I am planning to teach?
      - The word **HPC** is not new to them and they may have already used an HPC but are still not capable of giving a proper definition of HPC. In addition, we do not expect them to know much about parallelism and they cannot make any distinction between various available parallelism paradigms.
  - What tools do they already use?
      - serial codes, multi-threaded codes, data parallelism; usually out-of-the-box tools.
      - they may have tried to "scale" their code (multiprocessing, threading, GPUs) with more or less success.
  - What are the main issues they are currently experiencing?
      - they cannot solve their problems either because they would like to run the same code but with many different datasets or because their problem is larger (more computations/memory). 
      - most of the time they know their codes can run on HPC (from the documentation) but never really had the opportunity to try it out.
      - Very few will have their own codes where they may have tried different things to speed it up (threading, task parallelism) but have no clear strategy.
      
**Learner persona**
  - Sonya is a 1st year PhD student: she recently moved to Oslo and joined the Computational and Systems Neuroscience group. She will be using the [NEST](https://nest-simulator.readthedocs.io/) a simulator for spiking neural network model. She used NEST during her master thesis but on her small cluster: she never used an HPC and is really excited about it.
  - Robert is a field ecologist who obtained his PhD 6 months ago. He is now working on a new project with Climate scientists and as a consequence will need to run global climate models. He is not very familiar with command line even though he attended a Software Carpentry workshop and the idea to use HPC is a bit terrifying. He knows that he will get support from his team who has extensive experience with HPC but would like to become more independent and be able to run his own simulations (rather than copying existing cases).
  - Jessica is a postdoc working on a project that investigates numerically the complex dynamics arising at the tip of a fluid-driven rupture. Fluid dynamics will be computed by a finite element method solving the compressible Navier-Stokes equations on a moving mesh. She uses a code she has developed during her PhD and that is based on existing libraries. She has mostly ran it on a local desktop; her work during her PhD was very limited due to the lack of computing resources and she is now very keen is moving to HPC; she knows that it will requres some work, in particular to parallelize her code. This HPC training will be her first experience with HPC.

**Learning outcomes**
  - Understand the difference between HPCs and other local/remote machines
  - Understand the notion of core, nodes, cluster, shared/distributed memory, etc.
  - Understand the notion of login nodes.
  - Understand the need for a scheduler and how to use it appropriately
  - Understand why optimising I/Os is important on HPC and how to best use HPC filesystems
  - Understand the need to parallelize (or use existing parallel) codes and in which cases HPCs is a must (when communications is required) 
  - Understand how to get your code ready to use on HPC (access to libraries, installation of your own libraries/software, etc.)
  - Understand that an HPC is an operational machine and is not meant for developing codes.

**Exercises**
  - Get basic information such the number of CPUs, memory from your laptop and try to do the same on a HPC. Discuss outcomes.
  - Experiment the usage of the different filesystems on your HPCs.
  - Create different types of job scripts, submit and check outputs.
  - Make a concrete exaple to run a specific software on your HPC (something like GROMACS).

```

```{challenge} Exercise
Choose a simple lesson topic and apply backwards lesson design.  You
won't get all the way through, but come up with a logical
progression of exercises.

Some suggestions:
- Regular expressions
- Making papers in LaTeX
- Making figures in your favorite programming language
- Linux shell basics
- Something non-technical, such as painting a room
- An instructor training for CodeRefinery
- Some aspect from an already existing lesson
- [Introduction to high-performance computing](https://hpc-carpentry.github.io/hpc-intro/) (or an episode therein)
- [Unix shell in a HPC context](https://hpc-carpentry.github.io/hpc-shell/) (or an episode therein)
- A lesson you always wanted to teach

Exercise (30 minutes):
- Collect notes in a shared document.
- Start with learner personas and learning outcomes.
- Come up with a logical progression of exercises.

Discussion (15 minutes):
- How does this approach compare to other lessons or courses you have designed?
- We read, compare, and discuss our notes.
```

Commit message:

document the demo part; closes #109
so that we won't forget in few months

content/lesson-design.md, after:

# Lesson design

```{prereq} Recommended reading
- CodeRefinery [lesson-design](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/lesson-design/) manual
- [The Carpentries Curriculum Development Handbook](https://cdh.carpentries.org)
- [Teaching Tech Together](http://teachtogether.tech/)
- Our [summary](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/teaching-tech-together/) of "Teaching Tech Together"
- [Ten quick tips for creating an effective lesson](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1006915)
```

---

## How do you design?

```{discussion}
Discuss either in groups or via collaborative document:
- How do you start when you design a new lesson/presentation?
- Has your approach changed over the years? If yes, how?
```

---

## Backwards lesson design

### The approach

- You don't think about how to do something and try to explain it.
- Avoid the typical approach *"I want to show a number of things which I think are cool about
  tool X - how do I press these into 90 minutes?"*
- Instead, you start defining your target audience by answering to questions such **What is the expected educational level of my audience?**, **Have they been already exposed to the technologies I am planning to teach?**, **What tools do they already use?**, **what are the main issues they are currently experiencing**. It is important to discuss these points with a group of colleagues, preferably from diverse backgrounds and institutions to reduce biases. Once you clarified your target audience, it is useful to create **learner personas**; that will help you during the development process by providing concrete examples of potential learners showing up at your workshops. For each **learner personas**, try to think of what is
  **useful to them**: *"What do they **need** to [remember/understand/apply/analyze/evaluate/create](https://coderefinery.github.io/instructor-training/03-teaching-style/#using-bloom-s-taxonomy-to-write-effective-learning-objectives)?"*. Asking and answering to these questions will allow you to define the background knowledge (starting points) and goals (end points) of your learners. 
  Then, you create a sequence of exercises which test
  incrementally progressing tasks and acquisition of the new skills (from starting to end points).
- Then, you write the minimum amount
  of material to teach the gap between exercises.

### The process

For the whole process, see [our
manual](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/lesson-design/#backwards-lesson-design)
(instructor discusses these points briefly).


### Why is it good to have a process?:

- Having a semi-rigid design process can **save time** to start drafting.
- It allows collaborative development of teaching material.
- It will probably **increase quality and relevance** of lessons for learners.
- **We aren't perfect yet.**  CodeRefinery is still striving to get
  better at this, and we are more ad-hoc than you might think.
  A number of our lessons have not been designed this way but we are now improving
  these lessons with the backwards lesson design in mind.


### Designing exercises


The goal of exercises is twofold:
- instructors can assess the progress of learners.
- learners put in practice the skills that you have included in your skills list. 

When designing exercises, consider that some participants will get stuck
and may want to re-join at a later exercise. In other words it is nice
if exercises build up on each other but not at the cost that if participants
get stuck at exercise 2, they will not be able to do exercises 3 to N.

---

## Practice backwards design


```{discussion} The goal here is to discuss and provide examples on backwards-design of a lesson.

Let's take as an example the *[HPC Carpentry lesson](https://hpc-carpentry.github.io/hpc-intro/)*

**Target audience**
  - What is the expected educational level of my audience?
      - A PhD student, postdoc or young researcher.
  - Have they been already exposed to the technologies I am planning to teach?
      - The word **HPC** is not new to them and they may have already used an HPC but are still not capable of giving a proper definition of HPC. In addition, we do not expect them to know much about parallelism and they cannot make any distinction between various available parallelism paradigms.
  - What tools do they already use?
      - serial codes, multi-threaded codes, data parallelism; usually out-of-the-box tools.
      - they may have tried to "scale" their code (multiprocessing, threading, GPUs) with more or less success.
  - What are the main issues they are currently experiencing?
      - they cannot solve their problems either because they would like to run the same code but with many different datasets or because their problem is larger (more computations/memory). 
      - most of the time they know their codes can run on HPC (from the documentation) but never really had the opportunity to try it out.
      - Very few will have their own codes where they may have tried different things to speed it up (threading, task parallelism) but have no clear strategy.
      
**Learner persona**
  - Sonya is a 1st year PhD student: she recently moved to Oslo and joined the Computational and Systems Neuroscience group. She will be using the [NEST](https://nest-simulator.readthedocs.io/) a simulator for spiking neural network model. She used NEST during her master thesis but on her small cluster: she never used an HPC and is really excited about it.
  - Robert is a field ecologist who obtained his PhD 6 months ago. He is now working on a new project with Climate scientists and as a consequence will need to run global climate models. He is not very familiar with command line even though he attended a Software Carpentry workshop and the idea to use HPC is a bit terrifying. He knows that he will get support from his team who has extensive experience with HPC but would like to become more independent and be able to run his own simulations (rather than copying existing cases).
  - Jessica is a postdoc working on a project that investigates numerically the complex dynamics arising at the tip of a fluid-driven rupture. Fluid dynamics will be computed by a finite element method solving the compressible Navier-Stokes equations on a moving mesh. She uses a code she has developed during her PhD and that is based on existing libraries. She has mostly ran it on a local desktop; her work during her PhD was very limited due to the lack of computing resources and she is now very keen is moving to HPC; she knows that it will requres some work, in particular to parallelize her code. This HPC training will be her first experience with HPC.

**Learning outcomes**
  - Understand the difference between HPCs and other local/remote machines
  - Understand the notion of core, nodes, cluster, shared/distributed memory, etc.
  - Understand the notion of login nodes.
  - Understand the need for a scheduler and how to use it appropriately
  - Understand why optimising I/Os is important on HPC and how to best use HPC filesystems
  - Understand the need to parallelize (or use existing parallel) codes and in which cases HPCs is a must (when communications is required) 
  - Understand how to get your code ready to use on HPC (access to libraries, installation of your own libraries/software, etc.)
  - Understand that an HPC is an operational machine and is not meant for developing codes.

**Exercises**
  - Get basic information such the number of CPUs, memory from your laptop and try to do the same on a HPC. Discuss outcomes.
  - Experiment the usage of the different filesystems on your HPCs.
  - Create different types of job scripts, submit and check outputs.
  - Make a concrete exaple to run a specific software on your HPC (something like GROMACS).

```

```{challenge} Demo
Before we let participants present to their groups, one of the instructors
presents a 5-minute segment and we practice together giving feedback.

The section we demo should require screen sharing and be of some follow-along
task.

If there is time, we present one demo on the day before, and one demo just
before the group exercise.
```

```{challenge} Exercise
Choose a simple lesson topic and apply backwards lesson design.  You
won't get all the way through, but come up with a logical
progression of exercises.

Some suggestions:
- Regular expressions
- Making papers in LaTeX
- Making figures in your favorite programming language
- Linux shell basics
- Something non-technical, such as painting a room
- An instructor training for CodeRefinery
- Some aspect from an already existing lesson
- [Introduction to high-performance computing](https://hpc-carpentry.github.io/hpc-intro/) (or an episode therein)
- [Unix shell in a HPC context](https://hpc-carpentry.github.io/hpc-shell/) (or an episode therein)
- A lesson you always wanted to teach

Exercise (30 minutes):
- Collect notes in a shared document.
- Start with learner personas and learning outcomes.
- Come up with a logical progression of exercises.

Discussion (15 minutes):
- How does this approach compare to other lessons or courses you have designed?
- We read, compare, and discuss our notes.
```
