content/lesson-development.md, before:

# Collaborative lesson development

This session focuses on **organizational** and **technical aspects**
of collaborative lesson development.

```{discussion}
This session is about **collaborative** lesson development. What advantages do
you see in developing lessons collaboratively and sharing lessons (making
material accessible)?
```

## Creating new teaching material

Creating new teaching material is a longer process, because you should
go through the whole
[backwards lesson design process](/lesson-design/)
and get extensive comments.
Still, don't feel afraid: nothing is perfect (or even good)
the first time. In fact, **it may be an advantage to share an imperfect
lesson with others early** to collect feedback and suggestions before the lesson
"solidifies" too much. Draft it and collect feedback. The result will probably
be better than working in isolation towards a "perfect" lesson.

```{discussion}
How can we share unfinished work/ideas?
- Draft pull requests (GitHub) or WIP (work in progress) merge requests (GitLab).
- Open an issue and discuss your idea before implementing it.
```

---

## Contributing to existing lessons

Our lessons are **collaboratively developed**.  They are made by many
people, and there is no single fixed master plan (but there should be,
in the instructors or maintainer's guide).  We encourage
everyone to contribute to the lessons.

Lessons are reviewed very often - essentially, before each workshop by
the instructor of that workshop.  This can be a quick review, looking
at issues and fixing easy things, or more thorough.

Every so often (such as at this training), there is an extensive
hackathon period of fully revising a lesson and making major improvements.

We've made the [lesson-review](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/lesson-review/) checklist
to guide the review process.

```{discussion}
We now go to the
[lesson-review](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/lesson-review/)
checklist and discuss it, instead of duplicating things here.
```

---

## Technical aspects

- All lessons are public and open [repositories on GitHub](https://github.com/coderefinery).
- Make issues and pull requests about ideas and improvements.
- For substantial changes we recommend to first open an issue and describe your
  idea and collect feedback before you start with an extensive rewrite.
- If you see an open pull request, don't be afraid to comment and merge!
- Avoid merging own pull requests.
- For things still under construction, open a draft pull request to collect
  feedback and to signal to others what you are working on.


### Jekyll-based material

- `_episodes/` contains the markdown files of each episode, which get
  automatically assembled.  There is YAML metadata at the top of
  each.
- `index.md` is the main page, `guide.md` is the instructor's guide,
  and `reference.md` is the learner's reference guide.
- To get started with new lessons, we recommend to [generate a
  copy](https://github.com/coderefinery/example-lesson/generate) from the
  example [lesson template](https://github.com/coderefinery/example-lesson).
- After creating the new lesson repository, adapt `_config.yml`.

Note that most lessons and the
[lesson template](https://github.com/coderefinery/example-lesson) contain the
repository [jekyll-common](https://github.com/coderefinery/jekyll-common) as
Git submodule.  We do this to have one repository with common layout and
styling and to make it relatively easy to update lesson repositories after
layout or styling changes.


### Sphinx-based material

For some lessons, including this course, we use [sphinx-lesson](https://github.com/coderefinery/sphinx-lesson)
as starting point. See also the [sphinx-lesson documentation](https://coderefinery.github.io/sphinx-lesson/).

---

## Recommendations and lessons learned

- Convert feedback about lessons and suggestions for improvements into *issues*
  so that these don't get lost.
- Make your lesson citable: get a DOI.
- Credit contributors (not only Git commits).
- Instructor guide is essential for new instructors.
- Lesson changes should be accompanied with instructor guide changes (it's like
  a documentation for the lesson material).
- Apply and validate backwards lesson design again and again.
- Make it possible to try out new ideas (by making the lesson branch-able).
- Before making larger changes, talk with somebody and discuss these changes.

Commit message:

adding a note that these are our choices but not the only choices

content/lesson-development.md, after:

# Collaborative lesson development

This session focuses on **organizational** and **technical aspects**
of collaborative lesson development.

```{discussion}
This session is about **collaborative** lesson development. What advantages do
you see in developing lessons collaboratively and sharing lessons (making
material accessible)?
```

## Creating new teaching material

Creating new teaching material is a longer process, because you should
go through the whole
[backwards lesson design process](/lesson-design/)
and get extensive comments.
Still, don't feel afraid: nothing is perfect (or even good)
the first time. In fact, **it may be an advantage to share an imperfect
lesson with others early** to collect feedback and suggestions before the lesson
"solidifies" too much. Draft it and collect feedback. The result will probably
be better than working in isolation towards a "perfect" lesson.

```{discussion}
How can we share unfinished work/ideas?
- Draft pull requests (GitHub) or WIP (work in progress) merge requests (GitLab).
- Open an issue and discuss your idea before implementing it.
```

---

## Contributing to existing lessons

Our lessons are **collaboratively developed**.  They are made by many
people, and there is no single fixed master plan (but there should be,
in the instructors or maintainer's guide).  We encourage
everyone to contribute to the lessons.

Lessons are reviewed very often - essentially, before each workshop by
the instructor of that workshop.  This can be a quick review, looking
at issues and fixing easy things, or more thorough.

Every so often (such as at this training), there is an extensive
hackathon period of fully revising a lesson and making major improvements.

We've made the [lesson-review](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/lesson-review/) checklist
to guide the review process.

```{discussion}
We now go to the
[lesson-review](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/lesson-review/)
checklist and discuss it, instead of duplicating things here.
```

---

## Technical aspects

- All lessons are public and open [repositories on GitHub](https://github.com/coderefinery).
- Make issues and pull requests about ideas and improvements.
- For substantial changes we recommend to first open an issue and describe your
  idea and collect feedback before you start with an extensive rewrite.
- If you see an open pull request, don't be afraid to comment and merge!
- Avoid merging own pull requests.
- For things still under construction, open a draft pull request to collect
  feedback and to signal to others what you are working on.

These are our tool choices and templates can be freely re-used:

### Jekyll-based material

- `_episodes/` contains the markdown files of each episode, which get
  automatically assembled.  There is YAML metadata at the top of
  each.
- `index.md` is the main page, `guide.md` is the instructor's guide,
  and `reference.md` is the learner's reference guide.
- To get started with new lessons, we recommend to [generate a
  copy](https://github.com/coderefinery/example-lesson/generate) from the
  example [lesson template](https://github.com/coderefinery/example-lesson).
- After creating the new lesson repository, adapt `_config.yml`.

Note that most lessons and the
[lesson template](https://github.com/coderefinery/example-lesson) contain the
repository [jekyll-common](https://github.com/coderefinery/jekyll-common) as
Git submodule.  We do this to have one repository with common layout and
styling and to make it relatively easy to update lesson repositories after
layout or styling changes.


### Sphinx-based material

For some lessons, including this course, we use [sphinx-lesson](https://github.com/coderefinery/sphinx-lesson)
as starting point. See also the [sphinx-lesson documentation](https://coderefinery.github.io/sphinx-lesson/).

---

## Recommendations and lessons learned

- Convert feedback about lessons and suggestions for improvements into *issues*
  so that these don't get lost.
- Make your lesson citable: get a DOI.
- Credit contributors (not only Git commits).
- Instructor guide is essential for new instructors.
- Lesson changes should be accompanied with instructor guide changes (it's like
  a documentation for the lesson material).
- Apply and validate backwards lesson design again and again.
- Make it possible to try out new ideas (by making the lesson branch-able).
- Before making larger changes, talk with somebody and discuss these changes.
