content/streaming-practice.md, before:

# Livestream practice

This page contains various exercises to be done during
the practice session.  These are all "roleplay" of how you'll actually
act in a livestreamed course.


## Audio exercises.

Do the bottom two exercises from {doc}`sound`.  Audio quality and
balance is an important prerequisite for any teaching.



## Screenshare check

Purpose: be able to share screen in a way that can be broadcasted.
Remember this size so that it can be set up quickly later - you'll
need to do this quickly, without hesitation, later on.

Background: most Zoom instances allow you to "share a portion of the
screen", which should be 840 wide × 1080 tall.  This is rendered
pixel-perfect by YouTube and also forces a "small screen" so that you
don't share too much, and learners have space on their own screens.

:::{exercise} Demonstrate a proper screenshare

* Share your screen and adjust for portrait mode.
* If you can't share a portion of the screen, share your whole
  screen and tell the director what your total resolution is.
* Director: program in this as a named scene
* Instructor: Open the preview pane to see how it looks
* Instructor: make a note (tape on your screen?) to indicate the
  amount of space you have.
:::



## Behind the livestream

We'll see demos of what the streaming part is like.



## Director view

This is currently done case-by-case/live demo during the exercises
below.



## Announciator panel

We have a web-based panel that can relay non-verbal messages
("caution", "warning", "faster", etc.) between instructors without
having to speak up.  This exists as a web panel that has various
lights light up and make sounds when clicked.

:::{exercise} Test the announciator panel

Purpose: Understand how non-verbal instructor feedback works.

* Open the announciator panel (the broadcaster will provide a link)
* Make it work (disable SSL, click the button to enable audio).
  Confirm that it's lighting up.
* understand:
  * The indicator buttons and what they mean.
  * What effects these buttons have and when to use them.
* All: test turning the various lights on and off.

Roleplay:

* Person A explains something.
* Person B, partway through it, lights up the "time" light.
* Person A notices
:::



## Going live

Getting the instructors ready to "go live" isn't hard but someone has
to "herd the cats" and make it happen.  Instructors need to know how
this process goes.

:::{exercise} Test the "going live" process

* Director: Announce it's almost time
* Director: asks everyone else in the call to turn off their videos.
* Decide who is sharing screen
* Decide who is speaking first when you go live and what the first
  words will be.  (These first words are most important and you should
  think of what you'll say.)
* Director: In the director's panel, configure the "back to" setting,
  broadcaster audio, and jingle
* Director: countdowns "Starting in 3 2 1", (click the button),
  (everyone takes a breath for zero), then go.
* Speaker begins talking
* (Remember that each time you go back live is a good time to review
  the notes + answer questions)
:::



## Introduce exercises

It's not that hard to teach, but it requires some practice to say the
first words of a new lesson smoothly.

:::{exercise}
Purpose: Move to exercises in a controlled manner.

* Say what exercises are
  * What your goal is
  * How far you should get
  * Common things that might go wrong
* Add the exercise info + above questions to the notes
* Answer any questions from the notes (this )
* Verify that it is in the notes
* Leave to the break.
:::

## Going to a break


:::{exercise} Go to a break

* Look at the notes, anything to be answered?  (At least let people
  know it's in use)
* Say when we come back and what to expect then.
* Say "bye".
* Director pushes the "BEAK" button.
* Update the notes:
  * Break info block
  * When back
  * Exercise link (if any)
  * What the expectations are
:::



## Notes fixup

Purpose: learn the common things that can go wrong in the notes and
fix them.

:::{exercise} Practice fixing up a notes document

* spacing is off (missing blank lines between questions, missing blank
  lines in bullet points)
* questions not answered
* Section headings at inconsistent levels
* Exercises not described once they start
* Lesson/episode titles are not there
* People asking/answering questions above the exercise definition
* No template lines at the bottom.

Roleplay:
one person teaches, several people write badly in Notes, trainees have
to fix up in real time
:::



## Lesson preparation

:::{exercise} Level zero prepration to teach a lesson
* Explain the point of a lesson in a few sentences (as if you are
  giving an introduction to learners)
* Explain what you will not cover
:::



## Lesson revision

* Revise this lesson to make it more usable for someone who doesn't
  know the command line (or is in some other way different from you).

Commit message:

content/streaming-practice: exercise: common notes blocks

content/streaming-practice.md, after:

# Livestream practice

This page contains various exercises to be done during
the practice session.  These are all "roleplay" of how you'll actually
act in a livestreamed course.


## Audio exercises.

Do the bottom two exercises from {doc}`sound`.  Audio quality and
balance is an important prerequisite for any teaching.



## Screenshare check

Purpose: be able to share screen in a way that can be broadcasted.
Remember this size so that it can be set up quickly later - you'll
need to do this quickly, without hesitation, later on.

Background: most Zoom instances allow you to "share a portion of the
screen", which should be 840 wide × 1080 tall.  This is rendered
pixel-perfect by YouTube and also forces a "small screen" so that you
don't share too much, and learners have space on their own screens.

:::{exercise} Demonstrate a proper screenshare

* Share your screen and adjust for portrait mode.
* If you can't share a portion of the screen, share your whole
  screen and tell the director what your total resolution is.
* Director: program in this as a named scene
* Instructor: Open the preview pane to see how it looks
* Instructor: make a note (tape on your screen?) to indicate the
  amount of space you have.
:::



## Behind the livestream

We'll see demos of what the streaming part is like.



## Director view

This is currently done case-by-case/live demo during the exercises
below.



## Announciator panel

We have a web-based panel that can relay non-verbal messages
("caution", "warning", "faster", etc.) between instructors without
having to speak up.  This exists as a web panel that has various
lights light up and make sounds when clicked.

:::{exercise} Test the announciator panel

Purpose: Understand how non-verbal instructor feedback works.

* Open the announciator panel (the broadcaster will provide a link)
* Make it work (disable SSL, click the button to enable audio).
  Confirm that it's lighting up.
* understand:
  * The indicator buttons and what they mean.
  * What effects these buttons have and when to use them.
* All: test turning the various lights on and off.

Roleplay:

* Person A explains something.
* Person B, partway through it, lights up the "time" light.
* Person A notices
:::



## Going live

Getting the instructors ready to "go live" isn't hard but someone has
to "herd the cats" and make it happen.  Instructors need to know how
this process goes.

:::{exercise} Test the "going live" process

* Director: Announce it's almost time
* Director: asks everyone else in the call to turn off their videos.
* Decide who is sharing screen
* Decide who is speaking first when you go live and what the first
  words will be.  (These first words are most important and you should
  think of what you'll say.)
* Director: In the director's panel, configure the "back to" setting,
  broadcaster audio, and jingle
* Director: countdowns "Starting in 3 2 1", (click the button),
  (everyone takes a breath for zero), then go.
* Speaker begins talking
* (Remember that each time you go back live is a good time to review
  the notes + answer questions)
:::



## Introduce exercises

It's not that hard to teach, but it requires some practice to say the
first words of a new lesson smoothly.

:::{exercise}
Purpose: Move to exercises in a controlled manner.

* Say what exercises are
  * What your goal is
  * How far you should get
  * Common things that might go wrong
* Add the exercise info + above questions to the notes
* Answer any questions from the notes (this )
* Verify that it is in the notes
* Leave to the break.
:::

## Going to a break


:::{exercise} Go to a break

* Look at the notes, anything to be answered?  (At least let people
  know it's in use)
* Say when we come back and what to expect then.
* Say "bye".
* Director pushes the "BEAK" button.
* Update the notes:
  * Break info block
  * When back
  * Exercise link (if any)
  * What the expectations are
:::



## Notes fixup

Purpose: learn the common things that can go wrong in the notes and
fix them.

:::{exercise} Practice fixing up a notes document

* spacing is off (missing blank lines between questions, missing blank
  lines in bullet points)
* questions not answered
* Section headings at inconsistent levels
* Exercises not described once they start
* Lesson/episode titles are not there
* People asking/answering questions above the exercise definition
* No template lines at the bottom.

Roleplay:
one person teaches, several people write badly in Notes, trainees have
to fix up in real time
:::

:::{exercise} Add common notes blocks

In the notes, everyone add examples of the below, and we'll compare
the different formats people create (and maybe get some new ideas):

* Exercise announcement
* Break announcement
* Poll of some sort

Evaluate not just on how good it looks, but also how long it takes to
make, risks of things going wrong, brevity of markdown+HTML versions,
etc.
:::



## Lesson preparation

:::{exercise} Level zero prepration to teach a lesson
* Explain the point of a lesson in a few sentences (as if you are
  giving an introduction to learners)
* Explain what you will not cover
:::



## Lesson revision

* Revise this lesson to make it more usable for someone who doesn't
  know the command line (or is in some other way different from you).
