content/teaching-strategies.md, before:

# How to teach online

```{questions}
```

```{objectives}
- Understand the benefits and disadvantage of online teaching,
  compared to in-person

- Set up a good screen share

- Understand the benefits and disadvantages of team teaching

- Prepare for the teaching practice
```


## Why teaching mechanics matter

- When you teach, you are mainly showing a basic example for the
  learner to follow along
- The learner has a *lot* more to think about than you do, so you need
  to minimize the possible distractions and unnecessary weirdness.
- A learner will often only one small screen, limiting the number of
  things that they can think about.
- It's easy to save it until the end, and then you run out of time.



## Shell sharing

```{discussion} Discussion: what goes into a good shell share or demonstration?

When you are following along with a type-along demonstration, what
things:

- Are useful to make it easy to follow along
- Make it harder to follow along

Answer in the collaborative notes
```

When doing any demonstration, there are difficulties:

- If one misses something, you can't rewind to see it - is there any
  way to catch up?
- The learner must get oriented with the whole picture, while
  instructor knows precisely where to focus.

A good **shell share** has some of the following properties:

- Large font
- Shell history, available separately from the main shell window
- Closely matches the type-along instructions

We have a collection of shell sharing systems:
- We will look over [lesson presentation
hints](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/instructor-tech-setup/#terminal-history-window).
- There are other things you can copy
- Whatever you do, do *something*.

```{discussion}
The instructor will demonstrate several shell-sharing systems.  You
will use this in the teaching practice.
```



## Screen sharing

`````{discussion}

Look at the various [screen layouts in the CodeRefinery
manuals](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/instructor-tech-setup/#screen-sharing).
Use the HackMD to comment about what which are better or worse.

````{output} HackMD prototype
:class: dropdown
```
- S1
  - good:
  - bad:
- S2
  - good:
  - bad:
- S3
  - good:
  - bad:
- S4
  - good:
  - bad:
- Student layouts:
  - ...
- Instructor layouts:
  - ...
```
````
`````

- Many learners will have a smaller screen than you.
- You should plan for learners with only one small screen.
- A learner will **need to focus on both your screen share and their
  work**.
- Sharing your a whole screen is almost always a bad idea, if you want
  the learners to do anything at the same time.
- If you constrict yourself, then your experience is more similar to
  that of a learner.

Vertical sharing:
- CodeRefinery has recently started trialing a **vertical share**
  system, where you share a vertical half of your screen.
- This allows learners with one screen to display your screen
  side-by-side with their learn
- Zoom provides a "Share a part of screen" that is good for this.



## Online teaching tools

```{discussion} Discussion: Online vs in-person

In notes:
- Compare and contrast the benefits of online teaching with
  in-person.
- {advantage, disadvantage} × {content, presentation}
```





## Meta-talk

- You know what you just discussed, and what is coming next, but
  learners are often stuck thinking about now.
- Give a lot of "meta-talk" that is not just about the topic you are
  teaching, but how you are teaching it.
- Examples
  - **Why** you are doing each episode
  - What is the purpose of each exercise
  - Clearly state what someone should accomplish in each exercise and
    how long it will take - don't assume this is obvious.



## Teach teaching

- Demonstration-based teaching require two different types of focus:
  - Doing the mechanical steps as a demonstration
  - Explaining why you are doing it
- This is a lot for one person to keep in mind, so can multiple people
  work together for this?
- Team teaching idea:
  - One person is doing the demonstrations
  - One person is giving the commentary about what they are doing
  - The lecture becomes a discussion between two people instead.

Advantages:
- This reduces the pressure on each person (reduces demo effect)
- You are less likely to forget things
- It slows you down in teaching
- It makes the lesson more interesting to listen to
- One person can follow questions
- Great for introducing new instructors (which half is easier to start
  with?)

Disadvantage:
- Requires two people's time
- Requires coordination when preparing (slows you down in preparation)
- Unfamiliar concept to most people



## Teaching practice

In {doc}`teaching-practice`, you will break into groups and try to
apply these strategies to a five-minute example session.

Commit message:

content/teaching-strategies: Add a section on dealing with questions
- Review: general check, also does this belong here or in "running
  workshops".  I think it's OK to mention it beiefly here, since it
  relates to the actual teaching part, too.

content/teaching-strategies.md, after:

# How to teach online

```{questions}
```

```{objectives}
- Understand the benefits and disadvantage of online teaching,
  compared to in-person

- Set up a good screen share

- Understand the benefits and disadvantages of team teaching

- Prepare for the teaching practice
```


## Why teaching mechanics matter

- When you teach, you are mainly showing a basic example for the
  learner to follow along
- The learner has a *lot* more to think about than you do, so you need
  to minimize the possible distractions and unnecessary weirdness.
- A learner will often only one small screen, limiting the number of
  things that they can think about.
- It's easy to save it until the end, and then you run out of time.



## Shell sharing

```{discussion} Discussion: what goes into a good shell share or demonstration?

When you are following along with a type-along demonstration, what
things:

- Are useful to make it easy to follow along
- Make it harder to follow along

Answer in the collaborative notes
```

When doing any demonstration, there are difficulties:

- If one misses something, you can't rewind to see it - is there any
  way to catch up?
- The learner must get oriented with the whole picture, while
  instructor knows precisely where to focus.

A good **shell share** has some of the following properties:

- Large font
- Shell history, available separately from the main shell window
- Closely matches the type-along instructions

We have a collection of shell sharing systems:
- We will look over [lesson presentation
hints](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/instructor-tech-setup/#terminal-history-window).
- There are other things you can copy
- Whatever you do, do *something*.

```{discussion}
The instructor will demonstrate several shell-sharing systems.  You
will use this in the teaching practice.
```



## Screen sharing

`````{discussion}

Look at the various [screen layouts in the CodeRefinery
manuals](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/instructor-tech-setup/#screen-sharing).
Use the HackMD to comment about what which are better or worse.

````{output} HackMD prototype
:class: dropdown
```
- S1
  - good:
  - bad:
- S2
  - good:
  - bad:
- S3
  - good:
  - bad:
- S4
  - good:
  - bad:
- Student layouts:
  - ...
- Instructor layouts:
  - ...
```
````
`````

- Many learners will have a smaller screen than you.
- You should plan for learners with only one small screen.
- A learner will **need to focus on both your screen share and their
  work**.
- Sharing your a whole screen is almost always a bad idea, if you want
  the learners to do anything at the same time.
- If you constrict yourself, then your experience is more similar to
  that of a learner.

Vertical sharing:
- CodeRefinery has recently started trialing a **vertical share**
  system, where you share a vertical half of your screen.
- This allows learners with one screen to display your screen
  side-by-side with their learn
- Zoom provides a "Share a part of screen" that is good for this.



## Online teaching tools

```{discussion} Discussion: Online vs in-person

In notes:
- Compare and contrast the benefits of online teaching with
  in-person.
- {advantage, disadvantage} × {content, presentation}
```





## Meta-talk

- You know what you just discussed, and what is coming next, but
  learners are often stuck thinking about now.
- Give a lot of "meta-talk" that is not just about the topic you are
  teaching, but how you are teaching it.
- Examples
  - **Why** you are doing each episode
  - What is the purpose of each exercise
  - Clearly state what someone should accomplish in each exercise and
    how long it will take - don't assume this is obvious.



## Teach teaching

- Demonstration-based teaching require two different types of focus:
  - Doing the mechanical steps as a demonstration
  - Explaining why you are doing it
- This is a lot for one person to keep in mind, so can multiple people
  work together for this?
- Team teaching idea:
  - One person is doing the demonstrations
  - One person is giving the commentary about what they are doing
  - The lecture becomes a discussion between two people instead.

Advantages:
- This reduces the pressure on each person (reduces demo effect)
- You are less likely to forget things
- It slows you down in teaching
- It makes the lesson more interesting to listen to
- One person can follow questions
- Great for introducing new instructors (which half is easier to start
  with?)

Disadvantage:
- Requires two people's time
- Requires coordination when preparing (slows you down in preparation)
- Unfamiliar concept to most people



## Questions

- Questions are great, and important for any practical and interactive
  class
- But questions in main room doesn't scale to very large rooms.
- CodeRefinery strategy: HackMD for questions
  - Chat is not good enough, you can't reply to old things
  - HackMD allows threaded replies and follow up later
  - You need some other helpers to watch HackMD and answer, and bring
    things up to you.  And let you know how things are going.
  - Learners can ask anonymously
  - Learners don't have to worry about interrupting the flow.
  - Disadvantage: can produce information overload, warn people to not
    follow too closely
  - With too few people, it can turn out to be very quiet.
- We will learn more about HackMD questions tomorrow in
  {doc}`04-running-workshops`.

```{seealso}
* {doc}`04-running-workshops`
* [HackMD
mechanics](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/hackmd-mechanics/)
and [HackMD
helpers](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/hackmd-helper/) on
CodeRefinery manulas.
```



## Teaching practice

In {doc}`teaching-practice`, you will break into groups and try to
apply these strategies to a five-minute example session.
