content/teaching-practice.md, before:

# Teaching practice and feedback

Goals of this exercise:

- In groups of 4-5 persons we will practice teaching a **5-minute segment
  of a lesson of your choice**.
- The section you pick should require **screen sharing** and be of some
  **demonstration or follow-along task** (preferably using a shell) to also
  practice having a good screen-sharing setup.
- We will practice giving **constructive feedback**.
- We will practice improving our 5-minute segment by taking the feedback into account.
- In both session you can teach the same topic/segment but if you prefer you can also
  change the topic/aspect for the second session.

---

```{challenge} Exercise part 1 (group rooms, 50 minutes): First round of 5-minute teaching demos
- We organize the breakout rooms to not only discuss one lesson/topic so that it is more interesting
  to listen and also probably we will all get more useful feedback.
- Give each other **constructive verbal feedback** on the teaching demos, for example
  using [this demo rubric](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/demos_rubric/).
- Write down questions (in the collaborative document) that you would like to
  discuss in the main room or interesting conclusions which you would like to
  share with others.
```

```{challenge} Exercise part 2 (group rooms, 50 minutes): Second round of 5-minute teaching demos
- In the second round we distribute the rooms differently so that you can
  present it to a **new group of workshop participants** and can receive new
  feedback.
- Ask for feedback and one/few point(s) you want to improve.
- In your second trial check whether you feel the demonstration improved.
- Share your lessons learned in the collaborative document.
- Give us also feedback on this exercise format. Was it useful? What can we improve?
```

---

```{discussion} Discussion (main room)
 - We discuss questions and conclusions which came up during the group work session.
```

---

```{challenge} Optional exercise/discussion: Feedback for two live-coding examples
Teaching by live coding is a
[performance art which requires practice](https://teachtogether.tech/#s:performance-exercises).
This exercise highlights some typical pitfalls that most instructors
fall into sooner or later, and also shows how to avoid them.
Watch closely since we will be giving feedback!
- Watch these two videos: [video 1](https://youtu.be/bXxBeNkKmJE) and
  [video 2](https://youtu.be/SkPmwe_WjeY)
- What was better in video 1 and what was better in video 2?
- Please give feedback in the shared workshop document.
```

Commit message:

content/teaching-practice: Update section structure
- Add sections so that each exercise can be linked
- Remove challenge titles, now redundant with sections
- Add a section for the instructor demo
- Review: I am not sure if we want to go to a section-based exercise
  lookup, but I think it is better in this case since it makes a more
  useful toctree.  The exercise boxes are limited to calling out what
  to do, not giving it a title as well.

content/teaching-practice.md, after:

# Teaching practice and feedback

Goals of the teaching practice:

- In groups of 4-5 persons we will practice teaching a **5-minute segment
  of a lesson of your choice**.
- The section you pick should require **screen sharing** and be of some
  **demonstration or follow-along task** (preferably using a shell) to also
  practice having a good screen-sharing setup.
- We will practice giving **constructive feedback**.
- We will practice improving our 5-minute segment by taking the feedback into account.
- In both session you can teach the same topic/segment but if you prefer you can also
  change the topic/aspect for the second session.

---

## Instructor demo

- In order to demonstrate the goals of this section, the instructor
  will make a 5-minute demo for your evaluation.
- It is designed to include some good and bad practices for you to
  notice.

---

## Teaching demos part 1

In group rooms, 50 minutes.

```{challenge}
- We organize the breakout rooms to not only discuss one lesson/topic so that it is more interesting
  to listen and also probably we will all get more useful feedback.
- Give each other **constructive verbal feedback** on the teaching demos, for example
  using [this demo rubric](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/demos_rubric/).
- Write down questions (in the collaborative document) that you would like to
  discuss in the main room or interesting conclusions which you would like to
  share with others.
```

## Teaching demos, part 2

In group rooms, 50 minutes.

```{challenge}
- In the second round we distribute the rooms differently so that you can
  present it to a **new group of workshop participants** and can receive new
  feedback.
- Ask for feedback and one/few point(s) you want to improve.
- In your second trial check whether you feel the demonstration improved.
- Share your lessons learned in the collaborative document.
- Give us also feedback on this exercise format. Was it useful? What can we improve?
```

---

## Discussion

```{discussion} Main room discussion
 - We discuss questions and conclusions which came up during the group work session.
```

---

## Optional: feedback for two live-coding examples

```{challenge}
Teaching by live coding is a
[performance art which requires practice](https://teachtogether.tech/#s:performance-exercises).
This exercise highlights some typical pitfalls that most instructors
fall into sooner or later, and also shows how to avoid them.
Watch closely since we will be giving feedback!
- Watch these two videos: [video 1](https://youtu.be/bXxBeNkKmJE) and
  [video 2](https://youtu.be/SkPmwe_WjeY)
- What was better in video 1 and what was better in video 2?
- Please give feedback in the shared workshop document.
```
