content/video-recording.rst, before:

Video recording
===============

Video recordings could be useful for people attending a course later,
but also are (perhaps more) useful for **immediate review and catching
up after missing a day in a workshop**.  For this, they need to be
released immediately, within a few hours of the workshop (see
:doc:`video-editing`).  CodeRefinery can do this.



Primary articles
----------------

* Broadcaster description (most is not directly about recording):
  https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/broadcaster/

Summary
-------

* Basic principle: privacy is more important than any other factor.
  If we can't guarantee privacy, we can't release videos at all.

  - Disclaimers such as "if you don't want to appear in a recording,
    leave your video off and don't say anything", since a) accidents
    happen especially when coming back from breakout rooms.  b) it
    creates an incentive to not interact  or participate in the course.

* Livestreaming is important here: by separating the instruction from
  the audience audio/video, there is no privacy risk in the raw
  recording.  They could be released or shared unprocessed.

* Recording with Zoom in a large meeting with all the instructors and
  learners is simple, but not good for privacy: there are always
  mistakes, reviewing takes too long.

* Livestream platforms also provide instant recordings of the whole
  stream, and some make instant replays possible.  This could remove
  the need for making our own videos, since one of the most important
  cases is this instant replay idea.



Exercises
---------

TODO



See also
--------

(none yet)

Commit message:

content/video-recording: Rephrase the privacy+disclaimer sentence
- It was a bit awkward and hard to understand
- This might fix #8
- Review: check if the new wording makes sense

content/video-recording.rst, after:

Video recording
===============

Video recordings could be useful for people attending a course later,
but also are (perhaps more) useful for **immediate review and catching
up after missing a day in a workshop**.  For this, they need to be
released immediately, within a few hours of the workshop (see
:doc:`video-editing`).  CodeRefinery can do this.



Primary articles
----------------

* Broadcaster description (most is not directly about recording):
  https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/broadcaster/

Summary
-------

* Basic principle: privacy is more important than any other factor.
  If we can't guarantee privacy, we can't release videos at all.

  - Some events add a disclaimers such as "if you don't want to appear
    in a recording, leave your video off and don't say anything".  We
    would prefer not to do this, since a) we *know* accidents happen
    (especially when coming back from breakout rooms) b) it creates an
    incentive to not interact by voice/video.

* Livestreaming is important here: by separating the instruction from
  the audience audio/video, there is no privacy risk in the raw
  recording.  They could be released or shared unprocessed.

* Recording with Zoom in a large meeting with all the instructors and
  learners is simple, but not good for privacy: there are always
  mistakes, reviewing takes too long.

* Livestream platforms also provide instant recordings of the whole
  stream, and some make instant replays possible.  This could remove
  the need for making our own videos, since one of the most important
  cases is this instant replay idea.



Exercises
---------

TODO



See also
--------

(none yet)
