content/video-editing.rst, before:

Video editing
=============

Video recordings could be useful for people attending a course later,
but also are (perhaps more) useful for **immediate review and catching
up after missing a day in a workshop**.  For this, they need to be
released immediately, within a few hours of the workshop.
CodeRefinery can do this.

Hypothesis: videos must be processed the same evening as they were
recorded, otherwise (it may never happen) or (it's too late to be
useful).  To do that, we have to make processing *good enough* (not
perfect) and *fast* and *distributeable*


Primary articles
----------------
* Video editor role description:
  https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/video-editor/
* ffmpeg-editlist: the primary tool: https://github.com/coderefinery/ffmpeg-editlist

  * Example YAML editlists:
    https://github.com/AaltoSciComp/video-editlists-asc


Summary
-------

* Basic principle: privacy is more important than any other factor.
  If we can't guarantee privacy, we can't release videos at all.

  - Disclaimers such as "if you don't want to appear in a recording,
    leave your video off and don't say anything", since a) accidents
    happen especially when coming back from breakout rooms.  b) it
    creates an incentive to not interact or participate in the course.

* Livestreaming is important here: by separating the instruction from
  the audience audio/video, there is no privacy risk in the raw
  recording.  They could be released or shared unprocessed.

* Our overall priorities

  1) No learner (or anyone not staff) video, audio, names, etc. are
     present in the recordings.
  2) Good descriptions.
  3) Removing breaks and other dead time.
  4) Splitting videos into useful chunks (e.g. per-episode), perhaps
     equal with the next one:
  5) Good Table of Contents information so learners can jump to the
     right spots (this also helps with “good description”.)

* `ffmpeg-editlist
  <https://github.com/coderefinery/ffmpeg-editlist>`__ allows us to
  define an edit in a text file (crowdsourceable on Github), and then
  generate videos very quickly.



Exercises
---------

Exercise A
~~~~~~~~~~

These exercises will take you through the whole sequence.

.. exercise:: Editing-1: Get your sample video

   Download a sample video:

     * Video (raw): http://users.aalto.fi/~darstr1/sample-video/ffmpeg-editlist-demo-kickstart-2023.mkv
     * Whisper subtitles (of raw video):
       http://users.aalto.fi/~darstr1/sample-video/ffmpeg-editlist-demo-kickstart-2023.srt
     * `Schedule of workshop
       <https://scicomp.aalto.fi/training/scip/kickstart-2023/#schedule>`__
       (day 1, 11:35--12:25) - used for making the descriptions.


.. exercise:: Editing-2: Run Whisper to generate raw subtitles and test video.

   First off, install Whisper and generate the base subtitles, based
   on the.  Since this is probably too much to expect for a short
   lesson, they are provided for you (above), but if you want you can
   try using Whisper, or generating the subtitles some other way.

   You can start generating subtitles now, while you do the next
   steps, so that they are ready by the time you are ready to apply
   the editlist.  ffmpeg-editlist can also slice up the subtitles from
   the main video to make subtitles for each segment you cut out.

   Whisper is left as an exercise to the reader.

   .. solution::

      Example Whisper command:

      .. code-block::

	 whisper --device cuda --output_format srt --initial_prompt="Welcome to CodeRefinery day four." --lang en --condition_on_previous_text False INPUT.mkv

      An initial prompt like this make Whisper more likely to output
      full sentences, instead of a stream of words with no
      punctuation.


.. exercise:: Editing-3: Create the basic editlist.yaml file

   Install `ffmpeg-editlist
   <https://github.com/coderefinery/ffmpeg-editlist>`__ and try to
   follow its instructions, to create an edit with these features:

   * Input/output definitions
   * Two output sections: the "Intro to the course", and "From data
     storage to your science" talks (Remember it said the recording
     started at 11:35... look at the schedule for hints on when it
     might start!)

   A basic example:

   .. code-block:: yaml

      - input: day1-raw.mkv
      - output: part1.mkv
	title: something
	description: >-
	  some long
	  description of the
	  segment
	editlist:
	  - start: 10:00
	  - end: 20:00

   .. solution::

      This is an excerpt from our `actual editlist file of this course
      <https://github.com/AaltoSciComp/video-editlists-asc/blob/master/kickstart-2023.yaml#L16-L53>`__

      .. code-block:: yaml

	 - input: day1-obs.mkv

	 - output: day1-intro.mkv
	   title: 1.2 Introduction
	   description: >-
	     General introduction to the workshop.

	     https://scicomp.aalto.fi/training/kickstart/intro/

	   editlist:
	   - start: 00:24:10
	   - end: 00:37:31


	 - output: day1-from-data-storage-to-your-science.mkv
	   title: "1.3 From data storage to your science"
	   description: >-
	     Data is how most computational work starts, whether it is
	     externally collected, simulation code, or generated. And these
	     days, you can work on data even remotely, and these workflows
	     aren't obvious. We discuss how data storage choices lead to
	     computational workflows.

	     https://hackmd.io/@AaltoSciComp/SciCompIntro

	   editlist:
	   - start: 00:37:43
           - end: 00:50:05


.. admonition:: Discussion: what makes a video easy to edit?
   :class: discussion

   * Clear speaking and have high audio quality.
   * For subtitle generation: Separate sentences cleanly, otherwise it
     gets in a "stream of words" instead of "punctuated sentences"
     mode.
   * Clearly screen-sharing the place you are at, including section
     name.
   * Clear transitions, "OK, now let's move on to the next lesson,
     LESSON-NAME.  Going back to the main page, we see it here."
   * Clearly indicate where the transitions are
   * Hover mouse cursor over the area you are currently talking about.
   * Scroll screen when you move on to a new topic.
   * Accurate course webpage and sticking to the schedule

   All of these are also good for learners.  By editing videos, you
   become an advocate for good teaching overall.


.. exercise:: Editing-4: Run ffmpeg-editlist

   Install ffmpeg-editlist: ``pip install ffmpeg-editlist[srt]`` (you
   may want to use a virtual environment, but these are very minimal
   dependencies).

   The ``ffmpeg`` command line tool must be available in your
   ``PATH``.

   .. solution::

      It can be run with (where ``.`` is the directory containing the
      input files):

      .. code-block:: console

	$ ffmpeg-editlist editlist.yaml .

      Just running like this is quick and works, but the stream may be
      garbled in the first few seconds (because it's missing a key
      frame).  (A future exercise will go over fixing this.
      Basically, add the ``--reencode`` option, which re-encodes the
      video (this is **slow**).

      Look at the ``.info.txt`` files that come out.


.. exercise:: Editing-5: Add more features

   * Several chapter definitions.(re-run and you should see a
     ``.info.txt`` file also generated).  Video chapter definitions
     are timestamps, within the like such:

     .. code-block:: yaml

        - output: part1.mkv
          editlist:
          - start: 10:00
          - -: Introduction    #  <-- New, `-` means "at start time"
          - 10:45: Part 1      #  <-- New
          - 15:00: Part 2      #  <-- New
          - end: 20:00

     Look at the ``.info.txt`` files that come out now.  What is new?

   * Add in "workshop title", "workshop description", and see the
     ``.info.txt`` files that come out now.  This is ready for
     copy-pasting into a YouTube description (first line is the title,
     rest is the description).

     Look at the new ``.info.txt`` files.  What is new?

   .. solution::

      * `Example of the workshop description for this course
	<https://github.com/AaltoSciComp/video-editlists-asc/blob/master/kickstart-2023.yaml#L1-L13>`__
      * This course actually didn't have chapters for the first day
	sessions, but you can `see chapters for day 2 here
	<https://github.com/AaltoSciComp/video-editlists-asc/blob/master/kickstart-2023.yaml#L239-L262>`__,
	for example.
      * Example info.txt file for the general introduction to the
	course.  The part after the ``-----`` is the workshop description.

        .. code-block::

            1.2 Introduction - HPC/SciComp Kickstart summer 2023

            General introduction to the workshop.

            https://scicomp.aalto.fi/training/kickstart/intro/

            -----

            This is part of the Aalto Scientific Computing "Getting
            started with Scientific Computing and HPC Kickstart" 2023
            workshop.  The videos are available to everyone, but may be
            most useful to the people who attended the workshop and want
            to review later.

            Playlist:
            https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLZLVmS9rf3nMKR2jMglaN4su3ojWtWMVw

            Workshop webpage:
            https://scicomp.aalto.fi/training/scip/kickstart-2023/

            Aalto Scientific Computing: https://scicomp.aalto.fi/



.. exercise:: Editing-6: Subtitles

   Re-run ffmpeg-editlist with the ``--srt`` option (you have to
   install it with ``pip install ffmpeg-editlist[srt]`` to pull in the
   necessary dependency).  Notice how ``.srt`` files come out now.

   Use some subtitle editor to edit the *original* subtitle file, to
   fix up any transcription mistakes you may find.  You could edit
   directly, use ``subtitle-editor`` on Linux, or find some other
   tool.

   What do you learn from editing the subtitles?

   .. solution::

      ..code-block::

        $ ffmpeg-editlist --srt editlist.yaml

      There should now be a ``.srt`` file also generated.  It
      generated by finding the ``.srt`` of the original video, and
      cutting it the same way it cuts the video.  Look and you see it
      aligns with the original.

      This means that someone could have been working on fixing the
      Whisper subtitles while someone else was doing the yaml-editing.

.. exercise:: Editing-6: Subtitles

   Re-run ffmpeg-editlist with the ``--srt`` option (you have to
   install it with ``pip install ffmpeg-editlist[srt]`` to pull in the
   necessary dependency).  Notice how ``.srt`` files come out now.

   Use some subtitle editor to edit the *original* subtitle file, to
   fix up any transcription mistakes you may find.  You could edit
   directly, use ``subtitle-editor`` on Linux, or find some other
   tool.

   What do you learn from editing the subtitles?




.. admonition:: Discussion: how to distribute this?
   :class: discussion

   Create a flowchat of all the parts that need to be done, and which
   parts can be done in parallel.  Don't forget things that you might
   need to do before the workshop starts.

   How hard was this editing?  Was it worth it?



Exercise B
~~~~~~~~~~

This is similar to the above but more brief and not on a real example
video.

.. exercise:: Use ffmpeg-editlist to edit this sample video

   Prerequisites: ``ffmpeg`` must be installed on your computer
   outside of Python.  Be able to install ffmpeg-editlist.  This is
   simple in a Python virtual environment, but if not the only
   dependency is ``PyYAML``.

   * Download the sample video: http://users.aalto.fi/~darstr1/sample-video/sample-video-to-edit.raw.mkv
   * Copy a sample editlist YAML
   * Modify it to cut out the dead time at the beginning and the end.
   * If desired, add a description and table-of-contents to the
     video.
   * Run ffmpeg-editlist to produce a processed video.

.. solution::

   .. code:: yaml

      - input: sample-video-to-edit.raw.mkv
      - output: sample-video-to-edit.processed.mkv
	description: >
        editlist:
          - start: 00:16
	  - 00:15: demonstration
	  - 00:20: discussion
          - stop: 00:25

   .. code:: console

      $ ffmpeg-editlist editlist.yaml video/ -o video/

   Along with the processed video, we get
   ``sample-video-to-edit.processed.mkv.info.txt``::

     This is a sample video


     00:00 Demonstration
     00:04 Discussion



See also
--------

* ffmpeg-editlist demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=thvMNTBJg2Y
* Full demo of producing videos (everything in these exercises): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_CoBNe-n2Ak
* Example YAML editlists:
  https://github.com/AaltoSciComp/video-editlists-asc

Commit message:

content/video-editing: More exercise improvements including solutions

content/video-editing.rst, after:

Video editing
=============

Video recordings could be useful for people attending a course later,
but also are (perhaps more) useful for **immediate review and catching
up after missing a day in a workshop**.  For this, they need to be
released immediately, within a few hours of the workshop.
CodeRefinery can do this.

Hypothesis: videos must be processed the same evening as they were
recorded, otherwise (it may never happen) or (it's too late to be
useful).  To do that, we have to make processing *good enough* (not
perfect) and *fast* and *distributeable*


Primary articles
----------------
* Video editor role description:
  https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/video-editor/
* ffmpeg-editlist: the primary tool: https://github.com/coderefinery/ffmpeg-editlist

  * Example YAML editlists:
    https://github.com/AaltoSciComp/video-editlists-asc


Summary
-------

* Basic principle: privacy is more important than any other factor.
  If we can't guarantee privacy, we can't release videos at all.

  - Disclaimers such as "if you don't want to appear in a recording,
    leave your video off and don't say anything", since a) accidents
    happen especially when coming back from breakout rooms.  b) it
    creates an incentive to not interact or participate in the course.

* Livestreaming is important here: by separating the instruction from
  the audience audio/video, there is no privacy risk in the raw
  recording.  They could be released or shared unprocessed.

* Our overall priorities

  1) No learner (or anyone not staff) video, audio, names, etc. are
     present in the recordings.
  2) Good descriptions.
  3) Removing breaks and other dead time.
  4) Splitting videos into useful chunks (e.g. per-episode), perhaps
     equal with the next one:
  5) Good Table of Contents information so learners can jump to the
     right spots (this also helps with “good description”.)

* `ffmpeg-editlist
  <https://github.com/coderefinery/ffmpeg-editlist>`__ allows us to
  define an edit in a text file (crowdsourceable on Github), and then
  generate videos very quickly.



Exercises
---------

Exercise A
~~~~~~~~~~

These exercises will take you through the whole sequence.

.. exercise:: Editing-1: Get your sample video

   Download a sample video:

     * Video (raw): http://users.aalto.fi/~darstr1/sample-video/ffmpeg-editlist-demo-kickstart-2023.mkv
     * Whisper subtitles (of raw video):
       http://users.aalto.fi/~darstr1/sample-video/ffmpeg-editlist-demo-kickstart-2023.srt
     * `Schedule of workshop
       <https://scicomp.aalto.fi/training/scip/kickstart-2023/#schedule>`__
       (day 1, 11:35--12:25) - used for making the descriptions.


.. exercise:: Editing-2: Run Whisper to generate raw subtitles and test video.

   First off, install Whisper and generate the base subtitles, based
   on the.  Since this is probably too much to expect for a short
   lesson, they are provided for you (above), but if you want you can
   try using Whisper, or generating the subtitles some other way.

   You can start generating subtitles now, while you do the next
   steps, so that they are ready by the time you are ready to apply
   the editlist.  ffmpeg-editlist can also slice up the subtitles from
   the main video to make subtitles for each segment you cut out.

   Whisper is left as an exercise to the reader.

   .. solution::

      Example Whisper command:

      .. code-block::

	 whisper --device cuda --output_format srt --initial_prompt="Welcome to CodeRefinery day four." --lang en --condition_on_previous_text False INPUT.mkv

      An initial prompt like this make Whisper more likely to output
      full sentences, instead of a stream of words with no
      punctuation.


.. exercise:: Editing-3: Create the basic editlist.yaml file

   Install `ffmpeg-editlist
   <https://github.com/coderefinery/ffmpeg-editlist>`__ and try to
   follow its instructions, to create an edit with these features:

   * The input definition.
   * Two output sections: the "Intro to the course", and "From data
     storage to your science" talks (Remember it said the recording
     started at 11:35... look at the schedule for hints on when it
     might start!).  This should have a start/end timestamp from the
     *original* video.

   A basic example:

   .. code-block:: yaml

      - input: day1-raw.mkv

      # This is the output from one section.  Your result should have two of these sections.
      - output: part1.mkv
	title: something
	description: >-
	  some long
	  description of the
	  segment
	editlist:
	  - start: 10:00    # start timestamp of the section, in *original* video
	  - end: 20:00      # end timestamp of the section, in the *original* video

   .. solution::

      This is an excerpt from our `actual editlist file of this course
      <https://github.com/AaltoSciComp/video-editlists-asc/blob/master/kickstart-2023.yaml#L16-L53>`__

      .. code-block:: yaml

	 - input: day1-obs.mkv

	 - output: day1-intro.mkv
	   title: 1.2 Introduction
	   description: >-
	     General introduction to the workshop.

	     https://scicomp.aalto.fi/training/kickstart/intro/

	   editlist:
	   - start: 00:24:10
	   - end: 00:37:31


	 - output: day1-from-data-storage-to-your-science.mkv
	   title: "1.3 From data storage to your science"
	   description: >-
	     Data is how most computational work starts, whether it is
	     externally collected, simulation code, or generated. And these
	     days, you can work on data even remotely, and these workflows
	     aren't obvious. We discuss how data storage choices lead to
	     computational workflows.

	     https://hackmd.io/@AaltoSciComp/SciCompIntro

	   editlist:
	   - start: 00:37:43
           - end: 00:50:05


.. admonition:: Discussion: what makes a video easy to edit?
   :class: discussion

   * Clear speaking and have high audio quality.
   * For subtitle generation: Separate sentences cleanly, otherwise it
     gets in a "stream of words" instead of "punctuated sentences"
     mode.
   * Clearly screen-sharing the place you are at, including section
     name.
   * Clear transitions, "OK, now let's move on to the next lesson,
     LESSON-NAME.  Going back to the main page, we see it here."
   * Clearly indicate where the transitions are
   * Hover mouse cursor over the area you are currently talking about.
   * Scroll screen when you move on to a new topic.
   * Accurate course webpage and sticking to the schedule

   All of these are also good for learners.  By editing videos, you
   become an advocate for good teaching overall.


.. exercise:: Editing-4: Run ffmpeg-editlist

   Install ffmpeg-editlist: ``pip install ffmpeg-editlist[srt]`` (you
   may want to use a virtual environment, but these are very minimal
   dependencies).

   The ``ffmpeg`` command line tool must be available in your
   ``PATH``.

   .. solution::

      It can be run with (where ``.`` is the directory containing the
      input files):

      .. code-block:: console

	$ ffmpeg-editlist editlist.yaml .

      Just running like this is quick and works, but the stream may be
      garbled in the first few seconds (because it's missing a key
      frame).  (A future exercise will go over fixing this.
      Basically, add the ``--reencode`` option, which re-encodes the
      video (this is **slow**).  Don't do it yet.

      Look at the ``.info.txt`` files that come out.


.. exercise:: Editing-5: Add more features

   * Several chapter definitions.(re-run and you should see a
     ``.info.txt`` file also generated).  Video chapter definitions
     are timestamps of the *original* video, that get translated to
     timestamps of the *output* video.

     .. code-block:: yaml

        - output: part1.mkv
          editlist:
          - start: 10:00
          - -: Introduction    #  <-- New, `-` means "at start time"
          - 10:45: Part 1      #  <-- New
          - 15:00: Part 2      #  <-- New
          - end: 20:00

     Look at the ``.info.txt`` files that come out now.  What is new in it?

   * Add in "workshop title", "workshop description", and see the
     ``.info.txt`` files that come out now.  This is ready for
     copy-pasting into a YouTube description (first line is the title,
     rest is the description).

     Look at the new ``.info.txt`` files.  What is new?

   .. solution::

      * This course actually didn't have chapters for the first day
	sessions, but you can `see chapters for day 2 here
	<https://github.com/AaltoSciComp/video-editlists-asc/blob/master/kickstart-2023.yaml#L239-L262>`__,
	for example.
      * `Example of the workshop description for this course
	<https://github.com/AaltoSciComp/video-editlists-asc/blob/master/kickstart-2023.yaml#L1-L13>`__
      * Example info.txt file for the general introduction to the
	course.  The part after the ``-----`` is the workshop description.

        .. code-block::

            1.2 Introduction - HPC/SciComp Kickstart summer 2023

            General introduction to the workshop.

            https://scicomp.aalto.fi/training/kickstart/intro/

            -----

            This is part of the Aalto Scientific Computing "Getting
            started with Scientific Computing and HPC Kickstart" 2023
            workshop.  The videos are available to everyone, but may be
            most useful to the people who attended the workshop and want
            to review later.

            Playlist:
            https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLZLVmS9rf3nMKR2jMglaN4su3ojWtWMVw

            Workshop webpage:
            https://scicomp.aalto.fi/training/scip/kickstart-2023/

            Aalto Scientific Computing: https://scicomp.aalto.fi/


.. exercise:: Editing-6: Subtitles

   Re-run ffmpeg-editlist with the ``--srt`` option (you have to
   install it with ``pip install ffmpeg-editlist[srt]`` to pull in the
   necessary dependency).  Notice how ``.srt`` files come out now.

   Use some subtitle editor to edit the *original* subtitle file, to
   fix up any transcription mistakes you may find.  You could edit
   directly, use ``subtitle-editor`` on Linux, or find some other
   tool.

   What do you learn from editing the subtitles?

   .. solution::

      ..code-block::

        $ ffmpeg-editlist --srt editlist.yaml

      There should now be a ``.srt`` file also generated.  It
      generated by finding the ``.srt`` of the original video, and
      cutting it the same way it cuts the video.  Look and you see it
      aligns with the original.

      This means that someone could have been working on fixing the
      Whisper subtitles while someone else was doing the yaml-editing.


.. exercise:: Editing-6: Subtitles

   Re-run ffmpeg-editlist with the ``--srt`` option (you have to
   install it with ``pip install ffmpeg-editlist[srt]`` to pull in the
   necessary dependency).  Notice how ``.srt`` files come out now.

   Use some subtitle editor to edit the *original* subtitle file, to
   fix up any transcription mistakes you may find.  You could edit
   directly, use ``subtitle-editor`` on Linux, or find some other
   tool.

   What do you learn from editing the subtitles?


.. exercise:: Editing-7: Generate the final output file.

   * Run ffmpeg-editlist with the ``--reencode`` option: this
     re-encodes the video and makes sure that there is no black point
     at the start.

   * If you re-run with ``--check``, it won't output a new video file,
     but it *will* re-output the ``.info.txt`` and ``.srt`` files.
     This is useful when you adjust descriptions or chapters.


.. admonition:: Discussion: how to distribute this?
   :class: discussion

   Create a flowchat of all the parts that need to be done, and which
   parts can be done in parallel.  Don't forget things that you might
   need to do before the workshop starts.

   How hard was this editing?  Was it worth it?



Exercise B
~~~~~~~~~~

This is similar to the above but more brief and not on a real example
video.

.. exercise:: Use ffmpeg-editlist to edit this sample video

   Prerequisites: ``ffmpeg`` must be installed on your computer
   outside of Python.  Be able to install ffmpeg-editlist.  This is
   simple in a Python virtual environment, but if not the only
   dependency is ``PyYAML``.

   * Download the sample video: http://users.aalto.fi/~darstr1/sample-video/sample-video-to-edit.raw.mkv
   * Copy a sample editlist YAML
   * Modify it to cut out the dead time at the beginning and the end.
   * If desired, add a description and table-of-contents to the
     video.
   * Run ffmpeg-editlist to produce a processed video.

.. solution::

   .. code:: yaml

      - input: sample-video-to-edit.raw.mkv
      - output: sample-video-to-edit.processed.mkv
	description: >
        editlist:
          - start: 00:16
	  - 00:15: demonstration
	  - 00:20: discussion
          - stop: 00:25

   .. code:: console

      $ ffmpeg-editlist editlist.yaml video/ -o video/

   Along with the processed video, we get
   ``sample-video-to-edit.processed.mkv.info.txt``::

     This is a sample video


     00:00 Demonstration
     00:04 Discussion



See also
--------

* ffmpeg-editlist demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=thvMNTBJg2Y
* Full demo of producing videos (everything in these exercises): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_CoBNe-n2Ak
* Example YAML editlists:
  https://github.com/AaltoSciComp/video-editlists-asc
