content/welcome.md, before:

# Welcome and introduction

```{discussion} What do we want to get out of this workshop
- Introduction of instructors and helpers
- Each instructor can say what we want to get out of the instructor training
- But we want to know from everybody and collect these in the live notes
```

---

## Goals for this workshop

```{discussion} Goals for this instructor training
- Give future instructors the **tools and confidence** to teach best software practices and tools.
- **Motivate new instructors** to take up lessons, remix them, and to contribute.
- **Get feedback** to improve the material as well as our collaboration model.
- For us to **learn how we can support** related efforts and collaborate.
- **Catalyze and form new networks** and collaborations of teachers and trainers of
  practical scientific computing.
```


### Giving confidence

> *Goal number one should be that we give participants the confidence to
> independently apply the tools or knowledge learnt. This is more important
> that giving a "complete" overview.* [Lucy Whalley gave this great comment at one of our workshops]

- You don't have to know everything to use (or teach) something.
- For the large majority of topics we teach, there are many resources online
  which provide how-to guides or tutorials. And the Stack Overflow answer bank
  isn't getting any smaller. So we need to ask why do people attend in-person
  sessions if there is information freely available? Our impression is that
  it is for confidence building, identity formation, perhaps signposting to
  resources.
- This also links with building a welcoming/inclusive environment: for example,
  imposter syndrome, which disproportionately affects under-represented groups
  ([link](https://www.ncda.org/aws/NCDA/pt/sd/news_article/245005/_PARENT/CC_layout_details/false)),
  can manifest as low self-confidence --> building the confidence of
  students in the classroom may lead to a more diverse community.

---

## Tools for this workshop

We always start workshops with these:
- [HackMD mechanics and controls](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/hackmd-mechanics/)
- [Zoom mechanics and controls](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/zoom-mechanics/)

---

## Code of Conduct

- We follow [The Carpentries Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html).
- This is a hands-on, interactive workshop.
    - Be kind to each other and help each other as best you can.
    - If you can't help someone or there is some problem, let someone know.
    - If you notice something that prevents you from learning as well as you can, let us know and don't suffer silently.
- It's also about the little things:
    - volume
    - font size
    - generally confusing instructor
    - **not enough breaks**

---

## Overview of the lessons and a typical workshop

Here the instructor gives an overview of the lessons and a typical workshop.

---

```{discussion} What we do differently?
- Planing, teaching material available in advance and not PDF slides
- Different roles (instructor, host, hackmd, ...)
- GitHub projects board so all boxes are checked
- Helper recruitment and breakout room planning
    - Designing for this as soon as you open registration
- Less is more
- Welcome session and "outro" session
- Clearly defining learning outcomes
- Asking for feedback, encouraging feedback
- Manual
- Screen-sharing
- Using lesson templates
- Lesson review on GitHub
- Sharing material instead of being protective
```

Commit message:

content/welcome: Minimize the welcome section

content/welcome.md, after:

# Welcome and introduction

```{discussion} What do we want to get out of this workshop
- Introduction of instructors and helpers
- Each instructor can say what we want to get out of the instructor training
- But we want to know from everybody and collect these in the live notes
```

---

## Goals for this workshop

```{discussion} Goals for this instructor training
- **Inspire teachers**, and staff who have to teach indirectly as part of
  their job, to use best practices for the modern world, especially
  for online teaching.
- **Promote collaboration in teaching**: less going alone.
- **Promote CodeRefinery sustainability**: form a network that can
  work together to share the work and benefits.
```


### Giving confidence

> *Goal number one should be that we give participants the confidence to
> independently apply the tools or knowledge learnt. This is more important
> that giving a "complete" overview.* [Lucy Whalley gave this great comment at one of our workshops]

- You don't have to know everything to use (or teach) something.
- For the large majority of topics we teach, there are many resources online
  which provide how-to guides or tutorials. And the Stack Overflow answer bank
  isn't getting any smaller. So we need to ask why do people attend in-person
  sessions if there is information freely available? Our impression is that
  it is for confidence building, identity formation, perhaps signposting to
  resources.
- This also links with building a welcoming/inclusive environment: for example,
  imposter syndrome, which disproportionately affects under-represented groups
  ([link](https://www.ncda.org/aws/NCDA/pt/sd/news_article/245005/_PARENT/CC_layout_details/false)),
  can manifest as low self-confidence --> building the confidence of
  students in the classroom may lead to a more diverse community.

---

## Tools for this workshop

We always start workshops with these:
- [HackMD mechanics and controls](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/hackmd-mechanics/)
- [Zoom mechanics and controls](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/zoom-mechanics/)

---

## Code of Conduct

- We follow [The CodeRefinery Code of
  Conduct](https://coderefinery.org/about/code-of-conduct/).
- This is a hands-on, interactive workshop.
    - Be kind to each other and help each other as best you can.
    - If you can't help someone or there is some problem, let someone know.
    - If you notice something that prevents you from learning as well as you can, let us know and don't suffer silently.
- It's also about the little things:
    - volume
    - font size
    - generally confusing instructor
    - **not enough breaks**
