content/why-teach-together.rst, before:

Why teach together?
===================

We usually say so much about the value of collaboration.  Despite us
saying this, our teaching is still far too alone.  Covid-19 gave us a
kick that reduced our barriers and led to lasting changes in how we
taught (eventually leading to this very course).

Open Science / FAIR data is heavily emphazised these days.  But let's
add a "C" to FAIR: "collaborative".  Instead of people doing their own
thing and releasing, develop, iterate, and maintain **collaboratively**.



Ways to teach together
----------------------

* Develop materials together - avoid duplication.
* :doc:`team-teaching`
* Extensive use of helpers and team leaders.
* HackMD for parallel and mass answers.



Advantages
----------

* You need to teach anyway, less effort if you combine.
* If done right, minimal extra effort for others to receive benefit (+
  you get publicity).
* Many of the previously presented teaching strategies work best in
  large courses - this makes the course more engaging than a small
  event with minimal interaction.



Challenges and disadvantages
----------------------------

* Coordination

  * Finding suitable partners with the same vision
  * Coordination efforts (if others don't understand the vision).

* Materials

  * May not be perfectly tuned to your own audience
  * May not iterate as fast as you need

* Co-teaching

  * Difficulty in finding co-teachers
  * Required effort of syncing among staff
  * It might revert to independent teaching if you aren't careful.

* HackMD

  * Can possibly overload both student and teacher.



See also
--------

* :doc:`collaboration-models`

Commit message:

Add exercises to several lessons

content/why-teach-together.rst, after:

Why teach together?
===================

We usually say so much about the value of collaboration.  Despite us
saying this, our teaching is still far too alone.  Covid-19 gave us a
kick that reduced our barriers and led to lasting changes in how we
taught (eventually leading to this very course).

Open Science / FAIR data is heavily emphazised these days.  But let's
add a "C" to FAIR: "collaborative".  Instead of people doing their own
thing and releasing, develop, iterate, and maintain **collaboratively**.



Ways to teach together
----------------------

* Develop materials together - avoid duplication.
* :doc:`team-teaching`
* Extensive use of helpers and team leaders.
* HackMD for parallel and mass answers.



Advantages
----------

* You need to teach anyway, less effort if you combine.
* If done right, minimal extra effort for others to receive benefit (+
  you get publicity).
* Many of the previously presented teaching strategies work best in
  large courses - this makes the course more engaging than a small
  event with minimal interaction.



Challenges and disadvantages
----------------------------

* Coordination

  * Finding suitable partners with the same vision
  * Coordination efforts (if others don't understand the vision).

* Materials

  * May not be perfectly tuned to your own audience
  * May not iterate as fast as you need

* Co-teaching

  * Difficulty in finding co-teachers
  * Required effort of syncing among staff
  * It might revert to independent teaching if you aren't careful.

* HackMD

  * Can possibly overload both student and teacher.



Exercises
---------

.. exercise:: What similarities do we have?

   Using HackMD, make two lists:

   * What courses do you think your local community would benefit
     from, which you don't currently have?  `+1` other people's items
     which are also relevant to you.

   * Which courses are you thinking of preparing for your local
     community?  `+1` other people's items which you would be
     interested in helping out with.



See also
--------

* :doc:`collaboration-models`
