content/workshop-roles.rst, before:

Workshop roles
==============

Running massive workshops requires a lot of people.  We have a variety
of roles with different levels of support.

As usual, roles are a plan, and a plans are made to be updated.



Primary articles
----------------

* Workshop roles: https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/roles-overview/



Summary
-------

Lower levels mean "top level sometimes split into some of these
sub-roles".

* **Instructor coordinator:** coordinates schedule and instructors

  * **Instructor:** Teaches along with a co-teacher.

  * **Expert helper:** Spare person, usually watching HackMD but also
    rotates among breakout rooms.  Often instructs some lessons.

  * **Director:** Manages the flow of the schedule during the
    workshop, introduces each lesson, etc. (often the instructor
    coordinator)

    * **Broadcaster:** Manages the livestreaming

      * **Video editor:** Edits and publishes videos the day of the
        workshop.

* **Registration coordinator:** coordinates registration, helpers, and
  breakout rooms.

  * **Exercise leader coordinator:** Onboards exercise leaders
  * **Host:** Manages the learner breakout rooms, learner questions,
    etc.  (often the registration coordinator)
  * **Advertisement coordinator:** Advertises and outreaches

* Under both registration coordinator and instructor coordinator

  * **HackMD manager:** always watches and formats HackMD and
    publishes it same-day.  "Eyes on the ground" via HackMD and chat
    and quickly communicates important information to instructor and
    registration coordinators.

* **Learner:** attends and learns
* **Exercise leader:** serves as a guide to the team, receives small
  amount of training before the workshop.



See also
--------

(none yet)

Commit message:

Add exercises to several lessons

content/workshop-roles.rst, after:

Workshop roles
==============

Running massive workshops requires a lot of people.  We have a variety
of roles with different levels of support.

As usual, roles are a plan, and a plans are made to be updated.



Primary articles
----------------

* Workshop roles: https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/roles-overview/



Summary
-------

Lower levels mean "top level sometimes split into some of these
sub-roles".

* **Instructor coordinator:** coordinates schedule and instructors

  * **Instructor:** Teaches along with a co-teacher.

  * **Expert helper:** Spare person, usually watching HackMD but also
    rotates among breakout rooms.  Often instructs some lessons.

  * **Director:** Manages the flow of the schedule during the
    workshop, introduces each lesson, etc. (often the instructor
    coordinator)

    * **Broadcaster:** Manages the livestreaming

      * **Video editor:** Edits and publishes videos the day of the
        workshop.

* **Registration coordinator:** coordinates registration, helpers, and
  breakout rooms.

  * **Exercise leader coordinator:** Onboards exercise leaders
  * **Host:** Manages the learner breakout rooms, learner questions,
    etc.  (often the registration coordinator)
  * **Advertisement coordinator:** Advertises and outreaches

* Under both registration coordinator and instructor coordinator

  * **HackMD manager:** always watches and formats HackMD and
    publishes it same-day.  "Eyes on the ground" via HackMD and chat
    and quickly communicates important information to instructor and
    registration coordinators.

* **Learner:** attends and learns
* **Exercise leader:** serves as a guide to the team, receives small
  amount of training before the workshop.



Exercises
---------

.. exercise:: How many people teach in your workshops?

   * Using HackMD, make a histogram of how many (instructors +
     organizers) you typically have in your workshops.
   * List some of the common roles you have used.



See also
--------

(none yet)
